10/28/1977
IWDM Study Library 
Human Nature

By Imam W. Deen Mohammed
Introduction:
And now Imam WD Mohammed of the World Community of Al Islam in the West.
IWDM:
Audhu Bilahi Mina Shaitan Ar Rajim. Bismillah Ar Rahma Nir Raheem. Alhamduillahi Raabil Al Amin, Ar Rahma Nir Raheem Maliki Yauwm Ideen. Iyaka Na Abudu Wa Iyaka Nastaeen Ihdina Siratal Mustaqeem Siratal Ladheena An Amta Alahim Gharil Maghdoobi Alahim Wa Lad Daileen.Our honorable radio audience, we greet you with the greetings of all the Prophets from Abraham to Muhammad, the greetings of Peace- As Salaam Alaikum.
The following broadcast is part one of a kutbah delivered by the Honorable Imam WD Mohammed at the Jumu'ah Congregational meeting October 28th, 1977 at the Honorable Elijah Muhammad Masjid, Chicago, Illinois.
Dear beloved Muslim brothers and sisters, All Praise and thanks is due to Allah, the Guardian, Evolver and Sustainer of all the Worlds. I bear witness openly that there is nothing worthy to be worshiped, or to be prayed to, except Allah alone. And there's nothing like unto Him. And I bear witness openly that Muhammad is His servant and His Messenger. Dear beloved Muslims, we ask that Allah's Peace and blessings be upon Prophet Muhammad, the seal of the Prophets, the Messenger Prophet to all human beings. We ask that His blessing be upon his descendants, his companions upon the Muslims, the followers, all of them. And we ask that Allah aid the struggle of this community to gain more knowledge and understanding of the religion and to practice it and propagate it in the Western hemisphere so that Islam, the religion chosen for us by Allah in Adam and in all the Prophets who followed Adam, that this religion and nothing else but this religion become the way of life are the dominant influence in the lives of the people all over the world.
I have planned to discuss in this kutbah the human nature, which is a big problem for the human being. In fact, the biggest problem for the human being is the human nature. If we can know human nature, then we can manage our life and our affairs much better. Allah, Subhana Wa Ta Ala. Subhanahu, which means Highly Glorified is He. Wa Ta Alah, and Supreme above all things. He says in his Qur'an, "If the earth had been populated with angels or by angels, I would have sent an angel as a Messenger. Since the earth is populated by human beings, I sent a mortal human being as a Messenger."
This, the saying of Almighty G-d and the Qur'an to us speaks to a real problem that we have in our lives. A problem that we inherit from unbalanced religious teachings. By unbalanced religious teachings. I mean baby religious teachings, baby religious teachings. The whole world and its development, that is the whole human society and its development is like the birth or development of one individual, one individual. The Holy Qur'an says, and it is G-d's words to us, says that is your birth or your creation, your birth or your creation-That is your spiritual creation. And your death is as one soul, is as one soul."
So, if dear beloved people, we understand the society life, the societal life, or the human social order to be a growth of the individual's mind and needs or an expression of the minds and needs, then we should understand that society comes up just like the individual and the individual comes up from the cradle. We don't come here grown. We don't come here knowing everything. We come here knowing nothing as the Qur'an tells us. We come here knowing nothing and we have to gradually learn what the world is all about and what our place in the world is. We have to gradually learn this knowledge. When we study the history of society, the history of civilization, we can trace the Nation, the National life of a people back to a time in their life or in the history of their life when they knew little about civilization. They were babies in the knowledge of civilization. We can trace the religious history of the people back to that time when they were babies in their religious understanding. So, Allah grow us up. He grows us up in every respect. We don't grow up just physically or just politically. We grow up in every respect. Our religious life is a growth.
It is a growth. And Allah says in His Qur'an that He has created the human being as a plant. And a plant is something that grows from a dead seed, not a living seed. Even by scientific definition, a plant grows from a dead seed. No science book will call it a living seed. They all call it a dead seed. So, the human being grows from the dead earth and from the dead world. And Allah brings us out of the dead earth and out of the dead world into life, community life, spiritual life, a religious life. And we have to grow stage by stage until we reach our full development that Allah wants for us. The spiritual life is the first expression of the religious development. It's such a basic or such a characteristic thing of the religious life that whenever we find spiritual people, we say they're religious. They might not all be Islamic. They might not all be Christian or Jewish, but simply because they manifest this strong presence of spiritual life in them. We say those are religious people, don't we? Those are religious people. Those are religious people. This is the first expression of the religious life.
We have the fear in us of those things we don't understand or those things that we feel are more powerful than we are. And we have the affections in us for those things that we like or those things that please us and from fear and affection develop the religious life. Allah wants us to know our birth, our creation, and our development. In knowing this, we can better manage our lives. It is only the revealed scripture that gives us clear, clear focus on human nature. Nothing that science has come up with. Freud psychology is fraudulent. And all the other things that they have tried to come up with without respecting the divine word, the revealed word has been nothing but things to give us temporary pleasure but cast us right back into the terrible bed of confusion. But Allah shows us the light and He shines that light first on the human nature to let us know how to manage our lives. It is a good thing to know that the more important aspect of anything is its nature. Not its material substance, its weight, its size, but its nature. How has this industrial world become the Mount Everest of the planet Earth? Talking about the West and especially America, has become the industrial Mount Everest of the whole earth. The highest, the most powerful, the greatest in terms of industrial achievement. Is that right? How has it come to this great superiority? By studying the nature of the material world. Not so much by studying the physical aspects of it. The great knowledge opened up for the scientists when he discovered that there is something invisible about matter that is more important than the visible aspects of matter. That's when the great progress opened up for science, when the scientists discovered that it is not the visible that is important, it is the invisible that is important. And I like sometimes to refer to the Bible and bringing home to you the points that I try to make. The Bible speaks of evils growing upon the lives of the people, growing and growing with time and regeneration. Evils accumulating and becoming so troublesome that those evils take over the intelligence of the people. The leader's intelligence has of no power to deal with those evils. And how does the Bible and G-d, because G-d also missioned the Bible Prophets.
In fact, the Bible Prophets are the same Prophets of the Holy Qur'an, but many things have not been mentioned by name in the Holy Qur'an because those things have been dealt with in principle by the Holy Qur'an. Or in a saying of Prophet Muhammad. Many things were not that important to be elaborated on in the Qur'an. The Prophet Muhammad, he had the understanding, he dealt with those things directly himself, but the Qur'an verifies whatever he did, whatever he established. So, the Bible says of these hidden things that there will rise up a G-d. Says the people will worship, that G-d. Says there will be a strange G-d, a G-d that your forefathers never knew. And this is Bible I'm giving you now. Says it will be a G-d of forces. Now, hasn't that become a reality? The Qur'an speaks to the same thing, but in a different language. Prophet Muhammad, he has taught the same thing, but in slightly different language. The Dajjal, the beast that speaks to us, materialism and its forces. The Qur'an speaks of the beast that will be made to speak to us. Materialism, the voice of it is his forces. You see? The beast that will speak to us. So, this Western society, more so than any other society, has taken up the worship of the forces of materialism.
The invisible things of the materialism. So, if you ask someone to describe the G-d's of materialism, some people will say money, some will say lust and luxuries. Is that right? But those with the better insight will say the influences of materialism. Is that G-d visible? That G-d is invisible. So, the same people who told Moses "Show us G-d in public. We won't believe in an invisible G-d. Moses show us G-d in body, in physical body, in the public." The same people, the same mentality, the same ignorant mind, crippled mind, one-sided mind, has come to worship themselves, an invisible G-d and don't know it. The forces. The forces. How can we manage this life to avoid falling under the influences of creation? G-d showed us our nature and G-d tells us that He walked us in this material world. He created us in this material world. Not only in this material world, but the Holy Qur'an clears up the mystery of man's creation. The Bible is so mystified, so symbolic and secret in its language that you get confused sometimes and think that the creation of Adam happened somewhere in a spiritual level, plain or in a spiritual existence that was devoid of flesh and material.
And then after creating him as a soul or something, he was put in flesh. Is that right? But the Holy Qur'an, Allah in the Holy Qur'an clears up this confusion. "No, from the physical world you are created. In your mother's flesh womb. You are created step by step, stage by stage. Then after G-d completes the forming of the fetus, the forming of the person in the womb, G-d says "Thumma Kalikan Akhar." Afterwards, another creation began. So, the real human creation comes after the physical creation. The creation of our intellect, the creation of our sentiments and our emotions. All of these things are created after the flesh body is made. Where is the personality of the fetus? It does not exist except in his mother. But once he separated from his mother and his mind opened, his ears, opened his soul opened to what's happening out here, he begins to take on personality. He begins to become an individual. Who gave us this understanding? Allah through His Prophet Muhammad, the Universal Messenger to all mankind, to all people for all time. You see, shouldn't we be very proud as Muslims? We shouldn't be arrogant. The devil is arrogant, but we should be proud. We should take pride in the great wealth of religious knowledge that has been put into our hands, into our charge.
As a reward to the efforts and the nature of Prophet Muhammad. One man, representative of all men, one man, representative of all men in all flesh, in all human flesh. By his effort and by his sincerity, by his righteousness, he earned the reward of this knowledge, this precious knowledge. So, if that man has earned it, then the human being has earned it. That man was not an angel. Allah said "If the earth had been populated with angels, I would've sent you an angel as a Messenger." He sent you a mortal being as a Messenger and it is a mortal and the efforts of a mortal that has earned reward from G-d, that is salvation to all people. Isn't this a better concept of Savior than the one we got from the church? We can embrace this, we can identify with it. We can follow Muhammad as a mother, as a father, as a child, as a Nation leader, a National leader, as a President, as a King, as a lawyer. We can follow Muhammad in every way. But this crazy idea of Genesis that split the human being and forgot to put the other half back leads us to think that we need an unnatural being to lead natural beings.
All praise is due to Allah. He has cleared it up. We don't need unnatural beings to lead natural beings. We need natural beings to lead natural beings. Allahu Akbar. When we study the old ancient wisdom, and believe me, much of it came from the forefathers of the Arab people. In fact, we have a word that is called paradise. Eden. Eden. And the correct pronunciation is Adnan. And Adan is the name of an ancestor, ancient ancestor of the Arab people. Adnan. So that tells us that this idea of Eden is really a primitive concept of the beginning of the human life. And don't all of us look back on our beginning life as a pleasant life, as a Eden, as a garden secured, secured, No trouble. Someone took the diaper off and cleaned you and powdered it and put it back on. Someone rocked you to sleep or sung you a song. Wasn't that heaven? But Allah didn't want us in that heaven because it's not big enough for us. So, He puts us out of that heaven to bring us into a bigger one.
How did man put himself out of his baby peace that he had gotten from Allah? The Qur'an says Adam slipped. Adam slipped. He made a blunder there, right? He made a blunder. See, there was no resolve on his part to go wrong. He did not sit up one day and plan how to corrupt his life. He fell into corruption by ignorance, by accident. But there is another mentality that doesn't come into corruption by accident. It planned corruption, schemed, planned corruption. This is called the Satan. Not in some kind of immaterial body, but in human body. I want you to understand this. Satan never affects man in no big way except when he appears in human body. Now he can give you a small nightmare without appearing in a human body. But whenever he changed the political order, changed the religious order and plague the nation, he has appeared in human body. So, when he give you big trouble, don't look for him in the dream or in the mysteries of darkness. Look for him in the mysteries of crookedness, lies and deceits. And you'll trace that right back to a human body. Won't be any human being in it. Satan will be in it.
The human nature and the human mind would have become the Satan nature and the Satan mind. So, in looking at the human nature, let us go back to the ancient terms. Ancient terms that is symbolic or descriptive of our nature, symbolically descriptive of our nature. Fire, water, clay, air. Fire, water, earth, air. The Holy Qur'an says of the creation of G-d's Prophet or the human being, that he desire to populate the earth. Because after all, the Prophet is just a model of the human type G-d wants to populate the earth with. You understand? So, the idea, the creation of his ideal human being and the jinn is given in the Qur'an and the identity of the jinn is called the fire. Says from the fire of a scorching wind, from the fire of a scorching wind. The Nari Samu, I believe is the term. From the fire of a scorching wind. What is this talking about? Is every jinn a wicked creature? If every jinn was a wicked creature, Allah wouldn't have created jinn. The nature of the jinn must not be wickedness because Allah says "I created jinn." Alright? Allah says in His Qur'an that "I have not created man or jinn except to worship Me."
So, Allah has put it in the nature of jinn and human beings to worship Him. What is this jinn? It is an aspect of human nature, an aspect of human nature. If that aspect of human nature deteriorates or if it's misguided, it can degenerate into a devil. Into a devil or into Shaitan. The Satan. Did Allah create the devil? No. Allah created the jinn. And if we allow our jinn to deteriorate or to degenerate, and become devil and Satan, that's our creation and not Allah's creation. So, who creates the devil? Who creates the jinn? It is the human being who ignore G-d's guidance and go off and start grafting devils. The term grafted means you used something real with something unreal. Or something natural, with something unnatural. Or you corrupt the nature by using your natural purpose with unnatural purpose, combining the two. Is that right? Okay. This kind of religion takes the booger man out of your life. It's Allah who takes the booger man out of the human being life and its ignorance that puts the booger man in human being's life. So, He says that the jinn, He created the jinn from the flame of a scorching wind.
Alright, what is that? It's our passions. Our passions. The hunger for food, clothing, shelter, sex. Is sex a sin? No, I have a hunger for sex. Allah has put that into me. The hunger for sex, this thing, this element in my basic nature or this aspect of my basic nature, it influences my mind. It influences my culture. Is that right? So, I end up speaking a language that can be tied back or traced back to my sex appetites. Can I speak that language and please G-d? Certainly. I don't have to become corrupt. If I speak the language of sex in a healthy way, Allah won't punish me. And what will we call this language? We will call it passionate language. Is that right?
Won't it be the flame that can start the passionate flow, the passionate forces to moving? Won't it blow? Won't it feed the blowing, the wind of the passionate nature? But if we keep it right, it won't corrupt the nature. It'll just unfold the nature. Like the rose buds opening up to show all of its secrets and all of its secrets are beautiful. The last thing the rose reveal to us is its sex organ. Sex organ. And we say it all is beautiful. Is that right? The little part in the center is the sex part of the rose. It holds the germinating substance for reproducing a rose. We don't look at the sex of a rose that the rose revealed and say it's ugly, it's filthy. It's beautiful. Give me some scents, give me some perfume made from the substance of that rose sex. I love it. If we apply G-d's wisdom to the understanding, to the job of arriving at understanding of our own sex nature and makeup, we'll come with the accumulation of knowledge. We'll come to see the sex of the human being as a thing as beautiful and as fragrant and as pleasing in its fragrance as the rose.
Among human beings. there are some that don't smell the sex of a woman and say "Mmmm." So hasn't G-d even made the smell of the sex pleasing to the appetite for it. Now, that shouldn't be your only appetite. If that's your only appetite, you're lower than a dog. Because a dog has sex and he has affections for his wife, for his children. He has courage to battle for his wife. So, if that's all you have, than you're lower than a dog. But that's not low. That's beautiful. It makes the human being low when the human being can't rise above it. But on its level it's beautiful, isn't it? Alright. Ok. So, Allah says that He made the jinn from something white, from the, pardon me, the fire flame, of the scorching wind. Scorching wind. Allah is telling us that before you became the religious people that you are now, you didn't have a religion. That's all He's telling us.
That's simply what He's telling us. You didn't have this religion. You were dominated by your passion. You were dominated by your passion. I made this and I'm going to make better. Is that right? I'm going to make a Khalifa, a ruler in the earth. The jinn didn't think he was going to be better. Allah says, "I know what you know not." Is that right? The angels, they bowed to G-d's plan. They say "We have no knowledge except what you give us." Is that right? But the jinn, these people who had been following passions and were ruled by passion and who had become wise in passionate knowledge thought that no creature can be made of this submissive nature, of this passive nature.
I'm aggressive. I change the nature of things. See the passionate nature leads us to change the nature of things. Fire burns up the forms of things or transforms the forms of things. Is that right? Likewise, this passionate nature in us, it leads us to change. We don't want it. Pretty soon that nature, It drives us. The appetite grows and grows and grows and grows When it's weak, we are not too interested in just tearing up the earth. We are satisfied to take an apple, take an orange, take a piece of meat, drink some milk. But as it increased, it becomes so strong we ain't satisfied to just take that. We want to open the apple, let to see what's in the apple. I've had all the thrills and kicks that eating the apple can give me. Let's see if I can find some other kick, some other thrill in this apple. So, we open up and we look for other thrills in it. This passionate nature drives us to open up the material world and to burn it up. We ain't satisfied with it like that. I'm not satisfied with the apple as G-d gave it to me. I'm going to make apple juice
And wine. Apple wine, apple butter.
This is a fact of the nature. It's jinn nature driving us to change the thing. We want to get more out of it, get more out of it, get more out of it. If we are not careful, this nature will drive us into trouble. And this nature did drive the human being into trouble. Then Allah says, "Now that I have given you the time to run this course of your nature, it's time for another course. Then He revealed the proper religion to us. Before then our religion was that of a jinn, that of passionate nature. Its leadership wouldn't accept the new way. Who was the leader? The leader Shaitan. But at that time was he Shaitan? No, he was called Iblis right? Iblis, the chief of the passionate society, the ruler, the head, the chief force, the dominant intelligence over the passionate humanity. You see?
But when G-d says I'm going to make the man to inherit leadership, not from you, jinn the leadership from that nature that I want for man, human leadership. Human leadership. Because the jinn nature is not human leadership. You understand? It's only an aspect of human. Human being has to be more than that. He's more involved in that. To complete him, you need more aspects than that. Alright? So, G-d says He's going to make his man to inherit the leadership, the rule on earth. And that was His Prophet. And that Prophet represents that human type that He wants all people to be, male and female. So, He says that I'm going to make a man of moist smelling earth, moist earth black, moist earth, fertile earth. That's what it means. Going to make the man black is a sign of fertility in the earth. Moisture is a sign of fertility in the earth. Smelly, smelliness is a sign of fertility in the earth. So, what does He mean by make this man of black earth, fashioned and shape going to make him of fertile earth. Fertile earth. What does that mean for human beings? Make him rich in material composition, rich, productive, materially speaking.
But there won't only be the material production. There will be water, which is symbolic of the human nature and the human nature is more characteristic moral nature than it is anything else. The human being is characterized as particularly characterized as a moral being. That's what separate him from other beings. Other beings are not disturbed by moral questions. The human being is disturbed by moral questions. So, this aspect of his nature is there and the industrial nature is there too. We need materialism for production, for industry. Is that right? So that's there too. And then there is smell in there. Smell.
Smell in it. Now can we live just on material production and moral nature? Now we need flesh too. The smell of something means something animate is there. The inanimate world doesn't give off smell that like... Well it does, but smell there represents that offensive thing because G-d is talking about a human being and the term human being suggest human nature, the flesh nature. So, G-d is saying the very flesh that has given the jinn all the trouble I'm going to make the cornerstone of society. Yes, the very flesh that have given the jinn all the trouble. I'm going to make that flush the corner stone of the society.
Where is the explanation for this? Or verification for this? The Ka'aba, the first stone, was once a bright body in the sky. It was once a body that was a fire flame. Is that right? And it gave off the light of passionate life, didn't it? And it was up in heaven. It was up in heaven, meaning that it represents the leadership for that passionate life. But G-d caused it to fall, didn't He? It reached its end and it had to come to an end. It fell. When it fell right where did it fall? It fell in materialism, on materialism, didn't it? It fell on the earth. G-d doesn't want the passions to go up in the sky. Those religious people who couldn't deal with the problems of passions in the flesh, it drawled them up in the sky to become spirits.
They didn't want to mix with earth. You understand? But G-d didn't want that up there. He dropped 'em down to the physical earth, to the material world. Why? Because the cornerstone for His society is not angels. It's the flesh and blood human being. No light being in the stone means no guidance being in it. It has to be picked up. Now the next light that comes in, it won't be the formal light. It won't be the light of passion. That won't be the light that will guide it, direct its course of development. It will be the light of Al - Islam, A religion that won't take that flesh that the world called black.
Now we think we are the ones that the priest, that the old religious leadership called black. They called flesh black before they called us black. They're Caucasian people or light-skinned people, ancient people of India and other of the world who had not really come to know black skinned people. But they had an idea that the evil force or the evil being in the creation was black. They didn't mean physically black. Without light. And light means knowledge to open up the way, to open up the path of ignorance, the path of confusion. Is that right? Alright. That's what the light means.
G-d says that His chosen ones will have light radiating from their faces. Can light radiate from a black face? Is there a light radiating from the Ka'aba? Is there a light coming from the black stone that we kiss? Certainly there is. The light of purity has come out of flesh. Is that right? Flesh that troubled the spiritual world and was condemned, the rejected stone has become the pillar. Isn't that scripture? The flesh that the religious world rejected has now become the pillar. And G-d says that if the earth had been populated by angels. I would've sent you an angel as a Messenger. But since the earth is populated by flesh, I send you a flesh man as Messenger. And that flesh man who wanted wives, who wanted food, who wanted a nation, who wanted the right government, who wanted to beat back the enemies with war instruments, that flesh man has become the corner, the foundation stone of the new world order. Is that right? And out of that black flesh comes purity, more excellence.
Spiritual excellence. Is that right? Well look. The light of the jinn had only one light. But look how many lights come out of flesh. The jinn light, the moral light. Is that right? The light of intellect and the light of obedience, the light of submission, all of these come out of the human flesh. So, look how rich this blackstone is in light. Look how rich the rejected stone is in light. But isn't the best light the invisible light? It's not the visible light is it? The best light is the light that we see in blackness. Listen carefully. When we close our eyes and think, tell me what understanding where is the understanding being formed? Is it being formed in light or in blackness? And hasn't G-d put the very nature in us to close our eyes when we want to make a real, real desperate effort to get the light. To close eyes. Rub our forehead, close the eyes to come on out of darkness. Come out of darkness. Is that right? What do you want to come out of darkness. Understanding. The light that we need to show the steps for human beings. To light the path and show the steps for human beings. Is that right? So why does it come out of? Does it come out of light? It comes out of blackness.
Is that right? It comes out of blackness. So, G-d says you have misunderstood. Now let me correct it all. Here is the stone. I don't want it physically white. I don't want the flesh to be denied Its nature. It doesn't belong upstairs burning. It belongs down here. The same thing that burns has the nature to remain cool. Isn't that right? It doesn't burn until something acts on it from without.
Then it burns and the thing that burns it up in the sky is friction. It's not burning in its place. In fact, the earth isn't it in space? it's not burning is it? Because the earth is in its proper place. But if it drops out of its orbit to a lower depth or it's drawn out of its path, out of its natural orbit, it will burn. It'll begin burning. Especially if it comes into the atmosphere of a bigger body. Smaller body can can't finish it. It's a bigger body. And if it passes through the atmosphere of a bigger body, a bigger force, a bigger sphere of force with something in its atmosphere that causes friction, the friction will create heat and will heat the body up too much and the body at a point will burst into flames. Is that right? And burn up.
But if we just leave it where G-d put it, it won't burn up. We have in our nature, the passionate nature, that says if it's fed... Isn't there something in scripture that says that the Satan, he blows, he blows the fire, blowing the fire. Blowing the fire, it heats it, it makes it rage. You see? So, there is something in our nature that if we don't control it or don't guide it, take care of it properly, it will burst into flame and burn us up. But if we leave it alone, the flame then can be cool. The flame that was once very hot, we go there now and touch the black stone, It's not hot, it's cool, it's cool. Put it in the heat, it gets hot, right? Yeah, put it in the sun. The sun will heat it, make it hot. The sun will never set it afire. It will heat it but it's not going to set it afire. We have to really go through a lot of work to set that black stone on fire. And there in the corner of the Ka'aba, there is a silver ring around the stone. That's the kind of halo we should have. Invisible bodies shouldn't wear halos.
They shouldn't wear a crown of victory over their elementary or lower nature. It should be a flesh and blood human being wearing a halo, a crown representing his victory over the forces of his flesh, that he has gotten them under control like a great horseman and he's riding the flesh body with the reins in his hand. He says, gee, ha, stop, go. He puts the oats into his mouth and leads it to the water trough. Is that right? A horseman has gotten on his flesh and has mastered it, tamed it, and now he sends it through the city to carry goods. He carries it out on the battlefield to fight the enemy. It obeys him in war where there’s gunfire and explosions. It obeys him in the city where there is lust and temptation. So that human being has earned the halo. It's a sign that he's conquered his flesh and brought it under the discipline of G-d. It's not lusting now for the filth of the world. It's hungering for purity and moral excellence. Isn't this a greater victory for the human being than some idea of us dying, being failures on this earth until the last breath leaves and then we go somewhere in purgatory as spirits.
And be tortured there to be made ready for the spiritual heaven. Aren't you happy to know that G-d has made it possible for the human being to come into his heaven on earth? To wear his halo in this body. The sign of his victory over the elementary sources of his nature. This is not only religion, but this is science. The human being grows because he's able to conquer the elementary aspects of his nature in his society. That's why we have the term elementary school and high school and university. Because the human being has to conquer the first thing first. Then the second thing. Then he should come into knowledge of the final thing and the final things are universal. But in these universities there are not many university professors. Dear beloved people, we want to review these elements quickly and call this kutbah to a close, InshaAllah. The knowledge we have inherited, we can trace it back to the most ancient of days. There is the element of passion in human nature. Passions operate for good, but if we misguide them, they operate for self-destruction. There is the element of moral in the human being. This is termed the water.
G-d says He sends the rain cloud to the dry land and it rains down water. Where did the water come from? Came from the earth. G-d lifts the water up from the earth and sends it on a high plane by spiritual inspiration to land onto communities of people that need moral excellence. We need our moral nature to be lifted up. Sometimes it falls down and become polluted. Smelly, filthy, dead, filled with dead things. Is that right? But G-d, the force of G-d to inspire human nature and lift human morality is given to us in the sun. The sun rays back the earth, warms the water, creates a vapor, a mist so fine, the eye cannot see it and it lifts this mist up to higher levels of the spiritual nature until He brings it up there where the heat is not so strong, the heat of human passions. It cools and condenses into rain clouds. It becomes too heavy for the spiritual nature. It has to come down to the rational nature. It takes rational force to deal with it. It's just too heavy for simple spiritual understanding.
So, the rain drops that G-d has lifted up from corruption and impurity comes back down and the man out on the ocean, living in the Holy sea of Catholicism where the water is hard to drink. It's too salty. He gets the rain drop from heaven. Is that right? Where did it come from? It came from earth, right? G-d inspired it upward to higher levels of excellence. Is that right? And it rained down and falls into the ark of Catholicism and they say, "Oh, this is water we can drink." And the same water falls on all the land and give pure moral guidance and understanding to the people. G-d has not given us a morality reflected from angel nature. Or interpreted from angel nature. Allah has given us a morality interpreted out of human nature. Just as the rain that is drawn up from the earth into heaven is not heavenly water. It's originally earthly water. It's taken up to heaven to be transformed, to be purified and rained back down on the earth for the health of the earth. Then we have the element or aspect of human nature that is called faith. This is the amenable nature in the human being. What do we mean by amenable? We say "Ameen", Ameen. The Christians say "Amen." But does it mean may G-d be pleased?
May G-d be pleased. May it be about faith and given to me, May G-d be pleased. And we have an English term. Amenable. It means pleasing, agreeable. Isn't there an aspect of our human nature that wants to please? Doesn't this aspect drive people to destruction sometimes? The poor woman following the pimp, many times her mind is not corrupt. It is her inability to control this aspect of her nature that throws her into the grips or into the clutches of the pimp. She wasn't able to please mama. She wasn't able to please daddy. She wasn't able to please her sisters and brothers. She couldn't please the people on the block. She finally got a pimp that she could please. So that element or aspect of her human nature finds its satisfaction in pleasing somebody if it's nothing but a low scummy, filthy, slimy pimp.
Is that right? Alright, so this is an aspect that we have to control. We have this nature. Why is clay symbolic of this nature? Clay agrees for us to put it in any shape we want to put it in. You want to shape the clay in the form of a pimp? Okay. You want to shape the clay in the fall of the prostitute belonging to the pimp? Okay. You want to make the clay a hammer? Okay. You want to make it an apple, okay? The clay agrees with you to make it whatever you want to make it. It is very amenable. Is that right? So, G-d, directing or influencing the intelligence of His people, inspired them to use clay as a symbol for this amenable nature or aspect of human nature. Lastly, we have the air. Air. Air is harder to contain and harder to control than water. It represents the spiritual makeup of the human being, the spiritual makeup, the sentiment, human sentiment. Hasn't Allah blessed us with this nature? He has not cursed us with this nature. Human sentiments are beautiful and very precious in society. Sometime intelligence won't rescue the society. Sometime moral judgment won't rescue the society.
Sometimes a desire to please can't rescue the human society. But tenderness of the human heart. Sentiments come and do what none of the three could do and rescue the human society. So, G-d has given us these elements in our life that is good for us when they used properly. Bad for us if they are abused. And actually the tools for our salvation are not to come from without. But they already exist from within. Allahu Akbar.
All Praise and thanks are due to Allah, the Guardian, Evolver and Sustainer of all the worlds. We pray that Allah give Prophet Muhammad the choicest blessings, the blessings He promised him and that is the blessings of Abraham. Allah promised Muhammad that He would make Al-Islam the dominant religion of the earth, of the world. Prophet Muhammad, the leader of the new world order. And Al-Islam the religion of the new world order. So, we pray to Allah that He reward Prophet Muhammad by fulfilling this promise, and I can almost say He has done it. I was looking at the number of countries in so called Africa and other parts of the world that are predominantly Muslim. And we find now I believe they outnumber those that are predominantly Jewish, Christian or some other popular religion. Actually in the Christian countries, they are registering persons that are simply citizens and not Christian people. But in Muslim countries, the Muslims register those person who profess Al-Islam. You should be very happy to know in 1977 that you belong not to a minority, but you belong to the majority. Allah has fulfilled His promise. He has made his religion the dominant religion on this earth. The Christian influences are not the prevailing influences. The Islamic influences are the prevailing influences. So, we have lived to see this, but we don't want it to stop here.
We don't want people to simply be influenced by some of the good seeds or germs, of Al-Islam. We want people to identify in their life with this fertility, and grow by its firmament, or by its strength. That is we want this religion to be expressed inwardly and outwardly and to dominate the life of individuals. To get that, we have to work hard. We have to propagate the truth every day. Don't wait till somebody give you a degree from Chicago Masjid, or an Imam degree, or a Minister degree. When you hear the truth, you have the degree. All you need is the degree of knowledge to repeat what you've heard to others who haven't heard it. Don't worry about defending it. I guarantee you that anyone who sits under the voice of Al-Islam for one hour is better equipped to defend his religion than Christians and Jews who sit under the voice of their religion for one year. Don't doubt your ability to defend your religion. You don't have to be grade school graduate. You can have no school at all. Once you come in here and get this understanding, it takes away the damage that this world has done to your brain. It sets your mind in order to go back to grade school and get that diploma, go back to high school and get that diploma. Go on to college and get those degrees.
Don't think human beings are born ignorant. Human beings are made ignorant by an environment that is confusing. The highest scores on the IQ tests are those who suffered the less confusion in their life, the least confusion in their lives. The lowest scores are those who suffered the most confusion in their lives. Dear beloved Muslims, in understanding human nature or in knowing ourselves, let us remember those who embraced the teachings of the Honorable Elijah Muhammad some time ago. Let us remember that we are not selfishly seeking to know self. The purpose of self-knowledge is self-awareness, not arrogance. It's the devil who gets a little bit of knowledge of his nature, of his passionate makeup, and he becomes arrogant with a little knowledge. And isn't it the fools that boast of small achievements? Look back on your past and remember those days when we were taught that to know yourself is first. And we identified that with the supreme wisdom. We thought that there was no knowledge greater than the knowledge of ourselves. But there is now.
What knowledge is that Chief? You just said the study of human nature gives us the knowledge to manage our lives. It won't do you any good until you accept, realize and accept that it is not your creation. It is Allah's creation. The greatest knowledge is to know your infirmities and your limitations. Your strength is in obedience, not in becoming an arrogant teacher, an arrogant philosopher. Your strength is in your obedient nature. The very nature of the baby is the nature that will save you. The nature to submit to higher authority. The nature to submit your ignorance to greater knowledge. This is the nature in the human being that enable him to make bigger and bigger achievements, isn't it? But once we come to the point that we think we know it all, nobody can tell us anything. We have aborted ourselves. We are finished. You see? So, the purpose of self knowledge is self-awareness. Allah wants us to be aware of ourselves, aware of our nature. He gives us the knowledge. When we get the knowledge, it shouldn't make us arrogant. It should make us submissive, because we know we didn't have it until He gave it to us. The angels say, "We have no knowledge except that you have given us." So, the human beings should say the same thing. If beast refuse, the human being should say the same thing. "Oh Allah, I have no knowledge except that that you have blessed me with.
All Knowledge is a blessing from Allah. The scientific knowledge. The political knowledge, every knowledge, the revealed knowledge, every knowledge is a blessing from the Creator. We cannot come into knowledge except that we receive grace and charity from the Creator.
So, this is a great awareness. The awareness of my strength, the knowledge of my strength and my weaknesses. My firmness. And my infirmities. It's to see myself in right focus, right focus, proper focus. If I see myself in proper focus, I'll know myself in relationship with creation and in relationship with the Creator. And this should guide me to be humble and not arrogant in the earth. Out of these elements come the forces that put us in all the trouble. Forces of fear, forces of lust, forces of greed, forces of mysticism, forces of superstition. Mysticism. Superstition. Brothers and sisters, be aware of all of these boogeyman in the life of society and follow the way of Allah that He has shown to His Prophet Muhammad. Follow the way of Prophet Muhammad to salvation.
You've been listening to the Chief Imam WD Mohammed. You would like to join onto the World Community of Al-Islam call 662- 2202. Someone is waiting to answer the phone now.



