mm/dd/1975
IWDM Study Library
1975 Saviors’ Day Speech

By Imam W. Deen Mohammed
Thank you. Thank you very much. First to the distinguished, very appreciated brothers dignified platform we have here. I greet you in peace. As-salamu alaykum. Brothers and sisters in the audience, our friends, who are also our brothers and sisters, I greet you, too, because you are obviously as dignified as we are. As-salamu alaykum.
In the name of Allah, the beneficent, the most merciful, to whom we forever give praise and thanks for His blessing us, a people who, just a few years ago, not generations ago, but just a few years ago, were unable to think without having first something of a white man's mind to think with. A people who just a few years ago were unable to meet together on a serious, very serious, question and agree if that question had not previously been given the approval from the white man. So I thank the true and living G-d who blessed us, who had no head, with a head, the great and the Honorable Elijah Muhammad.
I would like to open my Savior's Day address with a reading from our Bible, which is properly called Quran, a word meaning that which is to be recited. I read from the Quran, Chapter 75, Section 2: The Dead Rise. "Does man think he will be left aimless? Was he not a small, light germ, in sperm, emitted? Then he was a clot, so He created him, then made him complete. Then He made of him two kinds, the male and the female. Is not He," and I stop, interrupt this quotation from the Quran, to make it very clear to you that "He" here, is the One, the Almighty, the true and living G-d, "is He not powerful, to give life to the dead?" All praise is due to Allah. The Lord, Keeper, the Sustainer of all the world, who manifests His presence and His divine will to my father, the Honorable Elijah Muhammad, in the person of Master Wali Farrad Muhammad.
I've been so honored here, today, until I cannot go into my address before first letting you know that I am too small for all this honor. The Honorable Elijah Muhammad, he has formed this house. The Honorable Elijah Muhammad built it from the ground. All he received from the G-d was, I believe they called it a build, in the language of industry, an order. A written order telling him what had to be done. What he received was an order to do a job. He had to begin that work from scratch and build a nation. When he accepted that job, he knew who he was working for, and that knowledge gave him the strength and the courage and the perseverance to stay on that job until the very end.
I think I should talk to you a little bit on the Honorable Elijah Muhammad. Although this is Savior's Day, and if the Honorable Elijah Muhammad, in his earthly-given body, were standing here at this moment, I think he would glorify Master Wali Farrad Muhammad, and he would tell you that this day celebrates his coming to him. I feel that it is my duty, that I am obligated now to present to you a savior made by a savior. A savior came to the Honorable Elijah Muhammad, and the Honorable Elijah Muhammad, a man from Sandersville, GA, born of a preacher, a Baptist preacher, who never agreed to really give himself fully to the church, but who always gave himself fully to the biblical scriptures, that he understood in a significantly different fashion. He gave himself to scripture, he knew what the scripture said of the coming of the hidden G-d. That G-d that had been hidden from the world, but had to, at the right time, in the right season, under the right conditions, before the right circumstances, that that G-d had to manifest Himself, to show Himself. The G-d that was working out of view, making all these things complicated. So complicated that no one could come up with a solution but He, Himself.
The Honorable Elijah Muhammad recognized the hidden, Divine being manifest in one Wali Farrad Muhammad, and when he recognized this, he began to preach to others of his brothers and sisters who were in the Christian religion, in one degree or another. See, what we must understand, brothers and sisters, is that 40 years ago, black people were almost 100% Christian in America and in most of the world. That is, the Western Hemisphere. Black people were almost 100% Christian. You didn't have to go to church to be born with a Christian mind. Even those homes that had residents or people who felt they weren't clean enough to walk into a church, or that they weren't religious-minded enough to participate in church life, even those families lived Christian lives and defended Christianity if you attacked Christianity in their presence.
The Honorable Elijah Muhammad came into his mission at a time when America, Black America, that is, was almost 100% Christian. So he began working with our people, telling them that, "Now, you must come into the understanding of your Bible." He said that, "G-d has missioned me, and I'm preaching to you that your graveyard is the Christian reading of the Bible." He told his people that, "I must resurrect you from that graveyard." When he preached these words in the early, middle, and late 30s, and early, middle, and late 40s, and even the early fifties, few of our people gave him their attention. Most of them laughed at him, and they referred to his small following as "those old Muslims." Those old Muhammadan. Those old fools. Those strange people. They didn't know that the solution to this problem was not to bring something that was like that that caused the problem. The solution was to the problem was to bring something very strange.
So Allah himself had to come, because the white man's minds have filled the atmosphere around the globe, and it was impossible for the subject of white mentality to come up with something new, but G-d Himself, being eternal and ever-watchful, he knew that the world had got out of order, and that a grafted strange mind was controlling things. So he came out, he said, "I'm going to come out of hiding, not as a mystery G-d, but as a natural G-d coming on time, because this mind has colored the earth. It has fulfilled the privilege, the freedom, the right that was given to it by the Divine Being. That is, that if you want to challenge the Divine Being, if you want to challenge truth, if you want to prove yourself powerful enough to undo G-d's natural creation, all right. You have the freedom, the way is open, but when you would have gone all over the world and done your thing, then I will come and manifest myself and undo your thing through Myself, the G-d, and there is no G-d besides Me." All praise is due to Allah.
The Honorable Elijah Muhammad said the trouble with the world of religious people is this, you follow those that schemed to undo the religious power. You follow those that scheme to take the power of G-d out of the people so that they could put the power of themselves in the people and rule the world. The Honorable Elijah Muhammad has taught us that we have followed and listened to a religious world that could only read print in the Bible, but could not read words, and sentences, and paragraphs. He has told us that we have followed the world, a religious world, that have given their voice to scripturalism and know little at all about interpretation. When you hear a preacher read the Genesis and tell you that Adam was a flesh and blood man, born from physical clay out of the earth, the kind your children play with, you are listening to a man who is teaching you scripturalism.
When you listen to the Christian preacher, or the Jewish rabbi, or the Muslim imam, tell you that this man who was formed out of the earth is not clay, physical clay, but he is a mind, a human mind that is a type of clay. Not clay, but clay is a symbolic term that shows us a likeness of this mind that G-d made. Clay, when it is formed, it remains in the shape that it was formed in until something takes it out of its shape. When it is formed and hardened by fire, if you break it, you destroy its form and it cannot be made whole again, except by G-d. So G-d, in the Genesis, is telling us that the world cannot make the human mind, that He intends to rule in the human body, that only G-d can fashion the human mind and walk away after he does his work, and that mind remain intact and will not throw itself into another shape. This mind that G-d makes is the mind of a messenger. The story of Adam, if you rightly understand it, is the story of the making of a prophet. We think that it is the beginning of people, and that is true, in a sense. It is the beginning of a particular people. It is the beginning of a righteous people.
The Bible has been so mixed-up and tampered with that we can't find the truth readily, G-d has to reveal the truth of its interpretation to the Honorable Elijah Muhammad. The European people called gentiles in the Bible. They were given the Bible after it had been rewritten, revised, added in, taken out. They were given the book for them, not for you and me. It was given by the original people to the gentiles, and the story of Adam was changed to fit the life and the to-be history of the gentiles. Like the original Adam, they also would be made and formed of the dust of the earth that means raised up from the bottom, from savagery, from idolatry. They would be raised from the bottom by the original people of the East, and their cause, as of Caesar's, would be changed from a beast and savage cause into a civilized appearance, if not a reality.
So we see that in the reading of the Bible, if we don't have understanding, we go way off. I must take the time here to let you know that the Honorable Elijah Muhammad has unlocked the Bible, and in unlocking the Bible, he has unlocked our minds. He makes us to understand the parables of Jesus, the symbolic language that runs from Genesis to Revelation, and in making us understand this,we come into the knowledge of real truth. Many think that Jesus actually turned drinking water into drinking wine. The Honorable Elijah Muhammad has brought the Bible college to the black people of America, not the bible college that you find open in the cities of America, but the real bible college, that bible college that made messengers and prophets. He has brought that to the black people of America and has made us to understand that Jesus did not turn drinking water into drinking wine. That is not the water that you run out of your faucet at home. He turned the revealed truth of G-d that is called water scripture, because it is only G-d that can lift truth up from its corrupted form as water is lifted up from the earth by the sun, and bring it up from corruption and descend it back again to the earth, for our drinking, pure.
The book calls the word of scripture water. Jesus was a blessed and righteous prophet, a righteous and blessed servant of G-d who was blessed with th knowledge of interpretation. So, he is described in the book as a man who has the power of G-d to turn that that was only water to the people, had no spirit in it, flat, dead, spiritless, readings of the Bible that the Jews were preaching to the people. Jesus came with the power of interpretation given to him by Almighty G-d, one whom he metaphorically called, or symbolically called, his Father. With the true interpretation, he was able to change that flat, dead water, that could do nothing but just provide the body, but had no spirit effect on the heart and the mind. He changed that dead letter scripture to wine. Divine wine, scriptural wine, a word with the power to affect the heart and affect the mind, and make those dead-spirit Jews jump up and clap their hands and stomp their feet and say, "Hallelujah amen," to the word of Jesus. Now we have a man like that in our midst, and we haven't recognized him. You, who are on the outside, you haven't come into the temple of the Honorable Elijah Muhammad and got the teachings of the Bible, you have only read scripture in print.
You don't have to go to a bible college to read the Bible in print, anybody that learned how to read English can read the Bible in print, but the book says, "Blessed is he that hear the word," and you can only hear the word in its true interpretation. Now, I'm not here to preach to you a Christian sermon, I am here to tell you that we have a black savior today, that G-d has come and found the people that were moaning and groaning without a head on their body. Living as freaks with a white man head adapted to their body. G-d came and woke up one of us, one of the sleeping dead in the Bible, one of the sleeping dead in the church, one of the sleeping dead in the world of white man's mentality. G-d came in the person of Wali Farrad Muhammad, and raised up one of the sleeping dead, the Honorable Elijah Muhammad, but He did not leave the image that He came in before us He went through his image, because it was not His flesh that He came to present to you and me, it was Divine Mind and Divine Will that He came and presented to you and me. All praise is due to Allah. Thank you.
Thank you, brothers and sisters, but we are trying to make a time limit, so please hold your applause and remain in your seats and say, "Amen." Say, "All praise is due to Allah for blessing us with the Honorable Elijah Muhammad." Today I say to you Muslims who were called the name "black Muslim" by someone outside of this Nation of Islam. They named us that, but I want you to know that we are not a people to harp upon color and racism. The Honorable Elijah Muhammad said, "This is not a race, he said this is a nation." When you look here at this beautiful audience here, you see the Bible picture of Joseph's coat of many beautiful colors. A man from China can come here to find his likeness among you. A man from Nigeria, a man from Ghana can come here and find his likeness among you. A man from Misr, that's the proper name for Egypt, the Egyptians don't call themselves Egyptians, they call themselves Mizraim or Mizra, but the Bible call them Mizraim, You see, the Bible is closer to the correct pronunciations than this world, who call them Egyptians. The people of what is called Egypt, if they came here, they could find their likeness among you. The Watusi can come and find his likeness among you. The Indian can come and find his likeness among you.
Yes, even the European gentile can come here and find a likeness among you, so if G-d has not justified in manifesting His will and His intentions for the whole world in you and me who are representatives of the whole world, than I say you should think again. Not a white head, no. This great work has not been done to present a black body with a white head, it has been done to present a black body with his own head, with something that complements that body, with something that does not disgrace that body. With something that the whole body can identify with and feel and say, "Yes, I am whole, and I am true to nature and I am belonging to myself." You know, brothers and sister, the Holy Quran tells us that there were jinn. A jinn is the same as gentile. That there were jinn helping the Prophet Solomon build the kingdom. This same Holy Quran tells us that the jinn, or the gentiles, bore witness that they had heard a beautiful recital of the Quran, and they advised themselves and those who were not gentiles to listen to it, because they admitted it was a true recital.
Today, we have lived to witness the gentiles of America, the gentiles of Chicago, the gentiles of New York City, the gentiles of Los Angeles, and the gentiles in the South, in Atlanta, Georgia, stand up and say, "We pay tribute to the great man, the Honorable Elijah Muhammad, and to his great work." While I was on the air, one of the gentiles called in and said, "The Honorable Elijah Muhammad is a financial G-d in the black community." We have not been raised to be a foolish, disrespectful people simply because we have had a second raising. The Caucasian world of yesterday reared the slaves, and they reared them to grow up as strong bodies, but with baby minds. They reared them to be children, and many of them refused to address us as Mr. and Mrs., or man and woman. They called the grown men and women of our people boys and girls, because they knew they had uprooted the man and planted boy mentality in the body we call the black man of America. Since then, since 1930, since the coming of Master Wali Farrad Muhammad, the manifestation of G-d to the Honorable Elijah Muhammad, since that day in time, there has been a second rearing of G-d's children in America by G-d, Himself.
If anyone says this is not G-d's doing, I want you to reflect a bit. We are living in a time when everything that has been put together by men without the recognition and respect and dependence upon G-d, has manifested itself, has shown itself, to be unable to stand up and stay together in this 1975. In these 70s, we have lived to see integration come apart at its vital and most strongest seams. In these 70s, we have lived to see the Church influence, the Synagogue influence, even the Orthodox Mosque influence, weakening in its vital seams. In these 70s, we have lived to see old and vital institutions of the West weakened and break in their vital seams. We have seen sons of an old, and established generation of learned men and women leave the home of their learned parents with college educations filling their heads, put on sneakers, and raggedy old pants, funky, dirty t-shirts, and grow their hair long like a woman, and their beards fill their face, hiding the dignified image of a man and giving the semblance of an animal behind bars.
We have seen the strong of the strong turn from the house of strength and walk out in the street more weak than the black man of America that they took from the land called Africa, and reared up with no manhood and no womanhood, and hiding in their physical body a child mentality. We have seen the institutions and the sons of learned generations fall down and fall out of the grip of civilization. We have seen in our lifetime, in this very decade, we have seen with our own eyes, and the world cannot deny it. We have seen the government of America shook in its vital seams. We have seen the mighty dragon. We have seen the great popes that had blood and flesh and light and dirt for physical consumption like cows and bulls, and apes and gorillas, and grew to be a great giant, physically, with a big, giant, brain materially, but a pea-sized brain morally and spiritually. We have lived to see in this decade, the government of this great giant weaken and shake and break at its vital seams, and until this very moment, we have not seen them come up with facts that convinces them and us that they have come upon something that has in it the power to do again what the power of G-d has undone in their heart.
Do you understand? Hold up, hold up.
They have trained their people to look to a president, but they have trained them to recognize that a president walks with a vice president. The Honorable Elijah Muhammad didn't train but a few here. He kept it hid from the many and revealed it unto a few. He only trained a few here to see that a leader was walking, but there was another walking with him, learning how to walk his walk when the time demanded it. All praise is due to Allah. Thank you, thank you, thank you.
Look, the 130-some pounds of flesh and blood that Sandersville, GA gave birth to, that 130-some pounds of flesh and blood is now resting, waiting to be returned to this earth, it's not standing here in that flesh that Georgia birthed. Look what the power of divine truth in him, that exuded out from his mind... I should say, sprung out of his mind like water shot from a mighty fountain and sprinkled all over us, and we were so thirsty until our dry tongues went out and licked all of it up that was come to us. The water of Elijah Muhammad filled our dry bodies and gave birth to a scriptural, wet mind that can feed the black masses the life germ of G-d from now until eternity.
Look, my brothers and sisters. Listen, please. Listen, my brother and my sister, listen. Look around you. What do you see? Do you see something bursting loose at its vital seams? The whole world has failed to present unity, to present a cause, to convince the subjects of the world that there is unity in strength. You can depend upon us, we are one body, but G-d has manifested that we, under the leadership of the Honorable Elijah Muhammad, are the divine body that G-d wants the world to see today. There's no strength on Earth greater than G-d's strength, and what you see here today my brothers and sisters, and when I say that I mean all of you who have in your hearts truth, decency, honesty, and love for G-d and righteousness, all of you my brothers and sisters, I speak to you outside of this building.
For all of those who are listening now on closed television, I tell you and not only you but those who don't hear, all of you who can identify or find ma likeness among us, all over of planet Earth, I tell you that this is the work of Almighty G-d. This is a divine body. The Honorable Elijah Muhammad is not 130-some pounds of flesh and blood, the Honorable Elijah Muhammad is a mind, a spirit, a morality that is from G-d Almighty, that is filling the Nation of Islam. That is called a nation because a new people are coming into birth, who starts off like an Adam and an Eve in a garden or in a wilderness and grow into a family into a tribe, and on and on into a nation. This is a nuclear, this is a beginning, this is a small community, but the Nation of Islam is the whole Earth.
Don't think that this means we are going to get political. Know it was not political power that built Ancient Egypt. It was spiritual, it was moral, it was religious power, it was divine power that entered the great Pharaoh that first built us an Ancient Egypt. It was not political power that made the white civilization what it is today. It was revealed word that entered into Europe and established a power in Rome, a religious power. The gentile world got a shot in the savage vein of a savage arm, and had the courage to march with the banner of civilization in their hand. The world you see today, at its roots, and is beginning is divine power, is revealed truth. Nothing of this world has ever been made great unless G-d was in his roots, was at his base.
Brother and sister, there is much to say to you, but we will meet again and every time we meet, G-d will meet in us and with us. The Honorable Elijah Muhammad will fill our heart. Love from him will never depart from us. Respect for him will never depart from us. Though his 130-some pound physical body does not sit in the chair of his office, we still respect that chair because we know his work. His teachings, his thoughts, his feelings, his aspirations, his ambitions, were not that that came into being with the flesh that Georgia produced, but is that that came into being with time, itself. That that unfolded from eternity. Do you understand, my brothers and sisters? We will honor his chair, we will respect it. We will honor and respect his office, and we will never, never, never let anyone come among us and speak a word of discord, and we not hear it. No one can speak a word of cowardice and we not hear it. No one can speak a word to bring about dissension and we not hear it. No one can speak a word from the snake mind, and from the snake heart, and we not hear it, though it only be a hiss. We will hear it.
When we hear it, it will be driven out with the force of G-d, and nothing on this earth can withstand the force of G-d. We say as we have been taught, and this is the Muslim prayer. It was not invented today, we find it in the Quran. "Surely I've turned myself to you, oh Allah, who originated the heavens and the earth, I am not of those who associate G-ds with G-d. Surely my prayers and my sacrifices, my life and my death is all for Allah, the Lord, the Keeper, the Sustainer of all world." We say that and we mean it. Don't think that emotionalism is a force to shake this house. This is not a Sitting Bull ceremony that requires interpretation. The interpretation of this chief's among the Indians. No, the common F.O.I and M.G.T. The common, the ordinary brothers and sister, in our midst, who don't have what we call official rank. Even they have the knowledge and the understanding of the real power in this house.
This is not a church gymnasium. This is not a musical-formed thing. We know the life of babies, we know the nature of babies. We know the strength of babies. We know that when a test was put upon a baby, the baby will reacts to the test emotionally because G-d has not formed that baby in knowledge. It is still a child of emotion. G-d has not let it live long enough to become a child of knowledge, but the Honorable Elijah Muhammad said, "I have supreme wisdom from Almighty G-d." All of us are men and women of knowledge, and when a strong gust of wind coming from the forces of emotion and come against this house and blows, the windows stay intact. The shade doesn't even waver. The curtains at the window, though the window be up, won't even move by the winds of emotion simply because this house is built on strength, divine strength. This is a house formed by knowledge, and men of knowledge just don't fall down in the floor and weep and moan and cry like babies when the winds of emotions come.
No, if an army of emotions comes against us with snatching, beast teeth dripping blood, vicious, ready to swallow us, or if the surreptitious, deceitful, disguising, beast come in, playing the music of the devil, singing the songs of weakness. Let your winds of emotions come against this house, it stands forever. Peace be unto you. As-salamu alaykum.


