7/24 /1977
IWDM Study Library
Fourth Sunday Talk

By Imam W. Deen Mohammed
When you think of our more serious problems, they are problems of nature. The most serious problems we have are problems of nature. It's nature to be free, it's nature to be masculine, it's nature to be feminine, it's nature to be of many colors. All of these are nature, natural things. Our natural things have become our most serious problem. Things that don't trouble what we call savage man, troubles wise, modern man. Man known as savage, he's not hung up on no masculinity, femininity freedom. Sex or color. Bilalian or Black people as we call ourselves, have been used to different colors and have been living with different colors thousands and thousands of years. In fact, they even have so-called white people born in their family. We don't call 'em so white people. We call them Albinos. An Albino is as white as a white man.
So as far as physical color is concerned, Bilalian people they know, they're used to having different colors. Even a Albino. I'm not saying we the only ones that have Albinos in their group, other people have Albinos. But because we're so far from being Albino, when we have one that stands out. And there's no problem for the savage man. But so-called civilized man, oh it's a big problem. Over at Marquette now, bunch of crazy people breaking out windows, hurting innocent children and old people, turning over cars. Worse than a herd of rhinos over in the jungles of Africa. Human beings. Don't you know it's something wrong with your mind? There is something seriously wrong with the mind of the western world for people to be behaving like they behave, we have to get to the root of it, get to the bottom of this thing. What's the reason? There has to be a reason for it.
They've taught me democracy, they taught me Christianity and I'm still crazy? The problem lies somewhere. Is that right? They've told me that I belong to the greatest country, the greatest society. We are the most civilized, the richest. The most learned. But we only lead in the wealth, in the technology, in education. But we don't lead where leadership should really be if we are to keep society whole, intact, and healthy. Leadership should really be in the individual. If the individual loses the ability to lead himself, what good is any other leadership? If the family loses its ability to contain itself and lead itself, what good is any other leadership? Go to the home, where is the leadership? No leadership.
Talk to the individuals. Where’s the leadership? No leadership. If a man could come up, a doctor, he wouldn't have to be a doctor of psychology, just any sensible person. If we could resurrect one right now from a hundred years ago and let him come here and look at America, and go outside and speak to somebody. He'd say "Good G-d Almighty, why didn't G-d let me stay dead? Everybody on the earth has gone crazy." Women lib, homosexual lib. Unisex. Uni means one. G-d didn't make any one sex. G-d made two sexes. And that's how He advances life with two sexes. One male and one female. "Oh, we want unisex." Stone crazy. What is behind all this? A feeling that I have been short changed, I have been denied. The women lib, they feel they have been short changed, they have been denied. "Oh, give us what we're due, what we're due." But what are you due baby? "I want your pants, your jacket, your tools." After a while they gonna ask for something that even G-d didn't give 'em and I can't give it to them. And another man he stands up. Say what's your problem? Say, "i want equal opportunity. I'm a homosexual and we have rights like everybody else." What kind of complaint are these people making? Here's a black man, or a white man. A Bilalian or Caucasian homosexual. "I want my equal, rights." Well you got Bilalian rights or you got your Caucasian rights, you got American rights, you got the right that males want for themselves. "Oh, that isn’t enough. I want special rights. I want the right to carry myself as a homosexual. And the right to have a job over children, over the church. I want to be minister, preach. And teachers in the school. And this is me so why should I hide me? I want respect for me." So, what good is knowledge, what good is education, what good is religion if everything is okay? We don't need any truth. We don't need any religion. We don't need any special knowledge if everything is permissible and okay, if homosexuality is as good as natural men and natural women. And they argue that homosexuality is natural, they say it's natural. But if somebody come here with two or three legs, the homosexual won't call them natural. The homosexual will say, "Hey, look at that deformed man." Yeah, the homosexual. If you come here with two heads or something, the homosexual won't say natural, the homosexual will say, "Look at that deformed one. Look at that deformed man, look at that freak.". That's what the homosexual will say. But he go and jump on somebody as ugly and got tough looking muscles like his, jump on his back, on his head. And don't want none of us to say look at that freak.
That's the trouble with our world. We have lost contact with common sense. We've just driven ourselves crazy with a lot of philosophy, ideology, philosophizing on truth and freedom and this here and that. And we've philosophized ourselves into insanity. What is the superiority? All of us want to be superior. We don't want to feel that anybody is above us. We have to be equal with everybody. That kind of equality is crazy. Ain't no such thing as an equality where everybody's going to be equal in every respect. I might be equal with you in one sense, but you're going to be superior to me in another sense.
So, we can't be equal in every sense. Got equal rights for Negroes, equal rights for women, now equal rights for homosexuals. You need to come and listen to Chief Imam. I tell you, the real life is within the body. If G-d give me four feet, do you think I'm going to use four if I can use two. I see that He's given the majority of the men two feet. Now if I'm born with four, I hope they can fix me so I can walk with four. I mean walk with two pardon me. And if I can't walk with two in my mind, I'm going to identify with men that walk with two. I'm not going to let this strange accident take me and make me give my mind to it.
I could have been born with four arms, four legs. I'm not going to look at the octopus and say I'm your relative just because I have eight like he has, no. I'm going to look at the truth. I'm a human being. I see most human beings have two legs and two arms. So, though I come out funny like this, something done went wrong. Inside I'm going to see myself as I should see myself, a human being. You understand? Now there's some crazy funny pictures I'm painting for you, but what I'm saying is this. A man can be born physically in a form that the society doesn't accept. That doesn't mean that that man who's born like that should accept that and try to legitimize it in the society.
That man should realize that he has a stronger life and that life is the internal life. You understand? That life is the internal life. Now, if G-d has made me physically in some form that make me question my masculinity, I don't have hair like other men. My muscles are not tough like other men. Maybe my breasts a little bigger than other men. And my voice is softer than most men. If I know that I have been made male. So how do you know that? There's a way to know it baby. If I know I've been made male, with the right kind of teaching that we have, I'm going to overcome this female looking body. I'll grow muscles internally that'll be so strong when the weightlifter looks at me he won't see a frail looking feminine person, he'll see a man. You know the average person is not seen from without, they're seen from within.
A frail person if he's strong internally he gives a strong image. Is that right? But a strong person outwardly. If he's weak internally he gives a weak image. So, thank Allah that He has made a life in matter that doesn't have to be formed or deformed by matter. Isn't that something we should be really thankful for? That Allah has not made us a slave to matter. We rooted in matter, we grow from matter, we learn from matter and we increase our knowledge. But we don't have to become to become a slave to matter. Not even if that matter is my own body. And I'm going to tell you something that you most likely know. Most of the homosexuals are homosexuals in their mind and nowhere else. There are very few who have some kind of freak thing that happen to them physically. Most of them had the freak thing happen after they were born. Sometimes it's the home environment that caused it and other times it's the society that caused it. And sometimes it's just the individual's ignorance and weakness in the absence of guidance and strength and they fall into something. We have to straighten ourselves up. If we are going to be a strong people, we have to stop trying to give license to things that shouldn't have life.
"Oh baby, don't let nobody tell you what to do with your body. That's your body." What you mean your body? If it stinks, don't those people around you have to be bothered with that stink? If it smells good, the people around you appreciate it. If it dies the people around you going to have to bury it. Your body. You can't even bury it when you get through with it. "Don't let nobody tell you what to do with your body. You go on and have that abortion girl. Later for that nigger." If I make an investment in your body, you and your body owe me something. If I take a woman as my wife, I love her. I care for her. I share my wealth with her. I work eight hours. I bring money home to her. I keep her protected. I feed her body. My energy that I put out keep her body as she wants it to be. She gets pregnant. I invested my sperm into her body. And this crazy society going to tell me the woman has all the rights, It's her body. Her body but she got some of mine in it.
Is that justice? No, you didn't understand my question. Is it justice for them to ignore the man’s rights? This world is crazy. Supreme Court giving women the right to abort the baby. They say it's her body, she has the right. No respect for the men. Do you know why this society gives all of its attention to the woman even though that attention means the woman's destruction? Do you know why they do that? It's an old game. A society that fears that it can't keep it's men satisfied, that it can't give it's men what the men should have. It has to cripple, enslave or destroy the men. That's the only way. They have to either make you slaves, lock you up, or destroy you. Slavery is out, society doesn't accept it. Jails are too expensive. And society won't accept them locking all the males up just simply because they don't have anything for us to do. Alright. What's the only other answer for them? it's to destroy the man. The Bible and the Holy Qur'an says that they destroyed the male and saved the female. They destroyed the men and saved their women. This is their way. It's an old ancient way. If you can't run a society as it should be run and if the males are out of jobs, don't have nothing to do, destroy them. Take all their rights from 'em. Rob him of his fatherhood, of his masculinity, put his woman over him. Give his woman his male organ and give him a vagina. Put his woman on top of him. Excuse the language. But I want you to get the message plain and clear.
I know the women, they look at us and I know how they feel. A woman by nature is made to give herself to security. A woman doesn’t want to be insecure. G-d has put a nature in her that makes her restless and unsatisfied until she can find security. When she look at the males, and I'm not talking about Bilalians, I'm talking about all people. Caucasian, everybody's suffering. When the western world look at their males, they see a bunch of weaklings, a bunch of deprived weaklings, don't have no authority, don't have no masculinity. I know you say I have. Bless you brother. You are one in a few, one in the few that still have. All Praise be to Allah, we gonna celebrate after awhile.
This is a shame. See, those people who started the world out, they had good intentions, at least for accumulating wealth. They really thought they were going to accumulate wealth and have so many jobs. They thought that people would have so much wealth and there would be so many jobs that there would be a need for labor. But they didn't see down the road further. So all of a sudden now, well we don't have jobs. They still have the same old mind. We have to follow the same old discipline, the same old philosophy. We can't go against our philosophy. We don't believe in doing things this way. We have to do 'em that way. When you run into serious trouble, you have to question everything.
And this society has run into serious, most serious trouble. The males have no protection, no security. The females have nothing to put their trust in but themselves. How long can we live like this? Superiority. We wouldn't be hungering for positions of superiority if we had some kind of natural base in reality. We don't have any base in reality. So we are grabbing for straws like a drowning man. You just reaching up out of the water for anything. You just want to grab something. You don't have any base, you not grounded. The Holy Qur'an says "The superior among you is the most righteous among you."
That person who is living right is the person who is the superior. Eliminate this problem of jealousy, envy. "He got more knowledge than me. I hate him. If I had had his opportunity, I bet I would've been smarter than he is." You can if, if if, yourself into a grave for a thousand years. You'll be around here iffing it. "If I this, if I that. I could have been as rich as he is if I had been lucky like he is." If, if, if. Thank G-d that you a human being. That's the best spot you can have. You a human being. Again, the Holy Qur'an says that the best of the creatures are those that have faith for righteousness and goodness and truth. And who practice good deeds. And the worst of the creatures are those people who practice bad deeds, who have no faith and practice bad deeds.
These are the worst people. I seen men that couldn't write a decent letter, couldn't give a clear speech, make hundreds of thousands of dollars. Then I've seen men with degrees can't make a quarter. The Qur'an says that Allah gives the wealth as He pleases to whomsoever He pleases. Says and He restricts it or holds it back from whomsoever He pleases. We don't have sense enough. We see life, we see the facts of life. We see the man go through college and he learn and he learn and he learn and still can't make nothing. We see the man that can't learn anything and talks like he's dumb. But he got a big bank book. That should teach us something. And happiness. Who can teach you happiness? Do you think you can go to a school and learn how to be happy? No amount of education can teach you how to be happy. Those circumstances are in the power of G-d. And really if you understood, the key is within your own hands. To unlock that power so it'll flow towards you or in your favor. All you have to do is make your mind and your heart right. Even if it means risking, losing friendship where you got friendship. Losing opportunity from worldly advancement where you got those opportunities. Even if it means losing your precious wife, your precious husband, your precious son or daughter, you precious mother.
If you'll just have the strength to make a stand and stand for truth, and say truth is going to be the light in my life from here forward. Truth is going to be the hand that lead me from here forward. Truth is going to be my master from here forward. If you'll make that kind commitment, you'll see a change take place in your life. A change for the better. You'll start experiencing miracles. You don't have to know Allah. If you'll just commit yourself to be truthful, stand on truth. Act on truth, follow truth. Submit to truth. You don't have to know G-d. You don't have to know Allah. That will bring you into the knowledge of Allah. Yes, that alone will bring you to Allah. will bring you to Allah. Why? Because G-d and not made human beings knowing Him. G-d has made human beings fearing Him. And that fearing Him will move us to truth. Will lead us into the hand of G-d.
In the Qur'an one of Allah's names is Al Haqq. The truth. He is the truth. I find a truth here, a truth there. I find truth everywhere. And Allah is the truth. When I find Allah, I really find the truth. Say Good G-d Almighty, I found the truth of relativity, the truth of human nature. And now I found G-d, and all these truths look small in the light of G-d. Allah is the truth. And He's the truth you can't get, He has to give it to you. You can earn it. See you can't get the boss's money, can you? If you do, you subject to be arrested, put in jail for a crime. You can't get the boss's money but the boss can give you his money for services rendered. Is that right? Well Allah is the same. You can't get Allah but Allah can give you Himself. You can't get Allah. Impossible. If you set out to get Allah, you'll never get Allah. But if you set out to obey truth, Allah will give Himself.
Do you understand? How come I can't set out to get Allah and get Allah? Because you can't come to Allah in the right way until you first submit to the truth. There are some requirements. For every great thing achieved, isn't there some duty to perform or some payment to make or some qualifications needed? So, the qualifications to get Allah is first to obey truth. As I believe the Bible says. If you have not obeyed or followed in small things, how can you be expected to follow or obey in big things? So, the way to earn the big blessing is to show your obedience in the small things.
Some of us have color superiority. "Oh, I'm black. I know my blackness is better than their whiteness." You might be right. You might have better knuckles too. Better toenails. But is that what you gonna place importance on? Should a man walk around and say, "Oh my toenails are stronger than their toenails. They burn. Sun shine on them and burn their skin. My skin can take it."Good. Is that all you got to boast about? You should have a little more than that. The man can carry an umbrella, he doesn’t have to burn. Or keep his clothes on. But what do gonna do about letting some sunshine of knowledge come into that head of yours so you'll have something within. You see. You know yesterday we went to have a discussion on the effects of Caucasian images or images period. Caucasian or otherwise in worship. And I got there, I met a man from the 1960's who was beautiful in his blackness. But that's not enough.
You might not know it, but G-d has blessed me with more knowledge of blackness than any of them have. Whenever I go to their meetings....I went to one in the Caribbean. Doctorate people, people with Doctorate degrees. Got their little school, their little thing together, teaching blackness. I asked them a couple questions. And they just shriveled up. Don't you know if blackness was the thing to teach, the most qualified person to teach blackness would be a successor in the Nation of Islam now called World Community of Islam in the West. The voice of the Nation of Islam was the most consequential voice on blackness. So, if the blackness was a thing to use, look like we would be using it here.
They pick up something, they go back to African traditions, brag about how black people were able to survive in the jungle and still keep their humanity. I got something greater than that to brag about. They took our father from the jungle and our mother and brought 'em here to the plantations of the south, put 'em in and called them subhuman. And then limited their movement and growth to animal movement and growth. For almost three centuries. And here we are still human. If I want to find something to brag about, I don't have to go to Africa. My successes in America are bigger than anything that happened in the past. I am not talking to you to make you turn your mind from Africa. You might be crazy. I ain't. I recognize Africa for what she is. I recognize our brothers and sisters over there for where they are. I love my ancestors, bad and good ones. Strong and weak ones, I love them all.
I don't have no hang up. Black, no hang up. You understand? When I look at a man, if he ain't got nothing inside, he can be white as snow as the book says. And I look at a man, he could be black as pitch darkness, but if he ain't got nothing inside, he'll look to me like a black fly. Color don't say nothing to me. I ain't got no hangups like that. But if I wanted to talk about blackness, I could get out there and take the lead from any of those people out there talking about blackness. Because Allah has blessed this community to learn more of the truth of blackness, on blackness, than they have learned out there. Want you to call yourself African. He said I'm an African, not an Afro-American. And he used Marcus Garvey's name too. He said Marcus Garvey and others, they called us Africans. Marcus Garvey never called us Africans. He called us Afro Americans. And then what is African? What is Africa? Africa is a land, a continent. It's not a name. It's okay to identify with a continent. But before identifying with the name, look the name up. Learn something about the name. You might take up the name of a slave master who came to Africa or maybe just became popular and somebody said they was going to name Africa after a slave master Africanus. And I'm giving you the truth. Africanus was not the name of a native of that land. Africanus was a stranger who went to that land. And they put Africanus on that land. And you can get old map right now that won't have Africa, it'll say Africanus. But later they dropped the pronunciation and made it more English and said Africa and African. But the name is Africanus. Africanus was not a native of that continent. He was a stranger who came to explore, looking for things. And another one went there fighting by the same name Africanus. Two popular Africanus. Leo Africanus and Sepio Africanus.
This is not black studies. This is true studies I'm giving you. So don't tell me to call myself African. I'm working on getting the Africans to stop calling themselves African and call themselves Bilalians. The whole country should be named Bilalian. That's right. The whole continent should be called Bilal or Bilalian. "Oh, they'll never accept that." Not if they got a pig head and crazy mind like you got. I know they won't accept it. They can come up with a better name I'll accept another name. But just get rid of that old name of the conquerors. And I'm sure if the Indian ever woke up, came into power, they wouldn't like for us to call America. Because It's too named after a stranger. Americus Vesputti, I think his name is, you see. All of this naming of continents came up recent in the history of people. People never went about naming continents. You know what this is a result of? Imperialism, empire building. These empire builders, they wanted to put their name on continents to show we don't only have a state, we got a whole continent. So, they called this continent America.
Only continent that they couldn't name that wasn't Caucasian was Asia. Those people didn't allow them to come in and change their culture and take over the land. They kept their country kind of locked up against the invader. Now they were conquered, but they were never overcome. They retained their traditions, they retained their land, they kept it. Invader came, but he couldn't occupy it. And I think it was mainly because Asia was just too big. Caucasians saw they had too much. They had too many people and too much land to handle and they couldn't find enough dummies to handle it for 'em among those people. So, as a result, Asia has a name of a Mongolian ancestor. Hesia. They call it Asia. One of the oldest dynasties you can find in the history of the Chinese people is called Hesia. And it's pronounced Asia. Where did you learn these things from Wallace D Mohammed? From following truth and giving myself totally to G-d.
Well, time is passing. We need to get out of here, don't worry. And you'll be all right. Your legs will be hurting a little bit, back and what not. It's better to have that than to have arthritis or something worse. Now, before leaving this particular thought on the problems of modern society, modern human beings of unnaturalness, I want to point to the things that we should never forget to hold dear and precious and increase our knowledge on these things if we can. The Qur'an, Allah, Prophet Muhammad, the Muslim world. You a Muslim, you should know something about the Muslim world, the Muslim world. The history that is of the Muslim world and the Muslim communities of the world today. What are they doing? What are their problems? What are their setbacks? How have they advanced? You should be interested in such things, Now don't let that take you completely out of America. No, you should know America better than the foreign countries of the Muslim world because you live here. A person should know their own home first.
So we do have a fair knowledge of our own home, but that needs a lot of improvement too. Learn more about the land, Chicago, the United States, Western Society. Increase your knowledge. Many of you now who are depressed, can't get started in the morning, can't do the things you want to do. "Oh, I want to go downtown but I don't have the energy. Oh, I want to be a good wife. I don't have the energy. Oh, I want to be a good father. I just don't have the mind." If you'll start feeding your intelligence, life will come into your whole body. When intelligence is being starved, it cause the whole body to feel sick, lazy, limp. Increase your knowledge.
The Qur'an have a verse, Al Fatiha. And in the Qur'an says that this is the most often repeated verse, the often-repeated verses, the opening prayer, the first chapter, Al Fatiha. Muslims should study Al Fatiha. Every Muslim should know how to recite Al Fariha in English by heart. You should study it. If you don't know what the Beneficent is or what the Gracious is, look it up in the dictionary. If you don't know what the Merciful is, look it up in the dictionary. "Oh, I have an idea what it means." Learn more about it. So learn your religion, learn Al Fatiha, learn your religion, learn a lot. And the best way to learn these is by reading the Qur'an. Read the Qur'an, become more familiar with it. And we have many good books in our library here now on Islam by many good scholars. These books are available. Get these books and learn more about that that you are a part of. The Qur'an says that Allah causes the day to follow the night and the night to follow the day.
And that He merges night in to day and He merges day in tonight. Now to a poet, this might have some messages. To a believer, it has a great message. To the average person maybe it says nothing. What do you mean night follows day, day follow night. What is that? I don't understand that old talk. Day follows night, then night follows day. Knowledge leaves darkness, ignorance leaves knowledge. Do you know that? Sometimes knowledge leaves ignorance and then in time ignorance leaves knowledge. The western world is suffering now because knowledge is being led by ignorance. So, we are living in a time when darkness is leading light. Light is following darkness. Then the book says that He merges darkness into light. Means that those who are wise, they will one day come under the death of ignorance. They will merge into their light of understanding and turn it out.
And those who are ignorant, who are dark, who are ignorant, one day light will merge into their darkness and wipe out the darkness and turn the light on for them. So Allah is telling us with this beautiful symbolic verse, He's telling us that the power to turn the light of wisdom, knowledge, and understanding on for people is in My power, is in My hand just like the giving of night and day. And I have established night and day as a sign to your mind that the learned are not always the leaders. Sometimes I skip the learned and put the fools in the leadership.
And no matter how strong they are, they make every effort to keep the ignorant out of their knowledge. I in time merges the ignorance in on the wise, push them out, turn it over to the ignorant, and then He brings the intelligence in and push the ignorant out and establish intelligence or learning knowledge. This is a wise G-d, a just G-d. See, why would G-d take away knowledge from us? If you use knowledge as a tool to corrupt and enslave life, shouldn't G-d take that tool away from you? Though it's a good tool, but you don't use it for the purpose that He has designed. So shouldn't He take it away from you?
And if the leaders with the knowledge are unfit, shouldn't He put the ignorant before them and make the ignorant the leaders? I might be in the dark but my moral strength, my spiritual strength might be a greater saving power for society than their bright knowledge. So, shouldn't G-d put me ahead of them if I'm more fit for the leadership? And then G-d shows us in His language, Oh I'm not going let you go until G-d lets me go. And then G-d shows us in His language, Allah shows us in His language that the ignorant people sometimes coming into leadership and they fall under the forces of success.
And without intelligence they can't keep that leadership. Then G-d has to take away that leadership. He merges the light. So, then He has to bring the intelligence in and take the leadership away from ignorant people. You understand? So, He merges the light into the darkness. He gives the darkness the world, that is give the ignorant people, the world, the leadership. But the ignorant people because they don't have knowledge, they begin to think that they're superior and better, that their worth is in their muscles or their color. There was a tribe of our ancestors who thought their superiority was in the knowledge that they had of the sky, astrology. And they felt that they knew the heavenly body so well that they could go on and survive and survive and survive. And that no matter what happened to the world, eventually they'll come back into power.
What do they end up doing? Spending all their life jumping up to the sky. And right now, you go among them and you'll find a over there, jumping up to the sky. That's all they have is just a jump. Everything else is gone. So, they once had the leadership but it was taken away because they failed. If G-d gives ignorant people the leadership, they should be grateful to G-d and they should try to increase their understanding and their knowledge so that light won't have to be forced in on them. They will turn the light on for themselves. You see. Likewise, G-d says that He rotates the rule in the earth.
Say He rotates the rule in earth. He gives this nation a chance to rule for a time. He says so that it will be known how they will behave. How is it going to be known? If the races of the earth or the people of the earth, the families don't get the opportunity to rule, then how do we know who's more worthy? So, G-d says He rotates the rule. The Chinese gets the time the rule, the so-called African, Bilalian, he gets the time to rule. The European gets the time to rule. The Indians get the time to rule. He rotates it.
And then He wants his man to reflect. That's one of instructions that G-d gives to us. Don't just look ahead, don't live in the present and just look ahead. He says also look behind you. G-d says reflect. Look back and see how these nations and races have ruled. What lesson will we get from this? We'll find that color don't make a just rule. You can be Caucasian and your rule might be corrupt. You can be Chinese. Your rule might be corrupt. You can be Indian, you can be Bilalian, African. And your rule might be corrupt. The thing that makes the just rule, the right rule, is that that is in the heart.
If the heart is right, the person is going to be right, the rule will be right. And the book says that Allah look not to our faces but to our heart. That's what the Bible and the Qur'an says. That Allah looks not to your faces but to your heart. He doesn't care what color you are, what nationality you are."Oh I'm the son of King Fushi Fushima." Who in the hell is that? That don't make you be anything. All of us are the sons of one father. Isn't that a fact? If you trace the human beings back to their first ancestors, we all came from the same.
So all of us should be equal then, but that ain't the case is it? If all of us are the children of a king, then look at us now. Are we all princes? No. We're niggers, Blacks, Bilalians and Africans, all kind of other crazy things. Don't worry about your ancestor unless you want to learn from your ancestor. If you just want to identify to say "Oh, I know I had a great ancestor. Don't worry about that. If you can't find a piece of history showing you a great ancestor, don't worry about it. I guarantee you had a great ancestor. I don't know how far it was back, but I guarantee you you had a great ancestor. At one time in your family line if you can trace it back far, there was a king, a queen, a great warrior, a great learned man, great learned woman. If you can trace your ancestry back far, I guarantee you'll run into great people. Every other person will.
Now I want to quickly speak on life and how that life is described to us in scripture and close out. The main purpose of scripture, both Qur'an and Bible, is to save the life that Allah created for human beings. That's the main purpose. Allah don't want us to lose the life that He created for us. So, He send men, inspired men, to guide us back to that life when we get away from it That life according to the Qur'an and according to the Bible, I don't see the Bible here today, is described in this way. Our origin is in moral life. Moral life. No human being comes into some other life before they come into moral life. All of us come into moral life first. Before we learn to argue with the rules of logic, of reasoning, we have already come into a moral mind and we argue on moral principles. Is that right? This is nature for human life. So, the Qur'an and Bible tell us that G-d created us first as moral creatures. We are moral creatures. First from a moral creature we grow to have other branches, but we should keep that base, that base or keep our life rooted in moral life. Once we leave moral life, we die. As human beings, we die. Moral life in scripture is called in many places water. Water.
And we know that in the physical world, water is a necessity for life. Your grass needs water, your flowers need water. Your animals need water. You need water. All life need water. And people who migrate look for land that they can settle on, first thing they want to know, is there any water on this land? They don't want have to wait for rain. They want to know is there a river or creek? If there's no river, no creek or nothing, they want to know is there water under the ground? So they'll dig and see can they get a well right? And the Bible tell you that Abraham went out digging wells. Look in the Bible and find the beginning of Abraham's mission and you'll find that he went about digging wells. Now we think that he was digging physical wells. That's not what it means. G-d is telling us that the beginning of life is in morality. Abraham went out tapping the moral strength, nature of the people to bring up in them the water of moral strength. Not the ground but the people themselves. Abraham's teaching was tapping the moral base in the human being and bringing up the water of moral strength, cleanliness and righteousness in the people. So that's what it's symbolic of. So, the origin is in water or in moral makeup. This is what G-d is telling us. This is a formula for preserving, for preserving our lives.
Now you may have many problems. It might be a financial problem, it might be a spiritual problem, social problem. I don't care what it is. First thing you should do is look at your moral makeup and see if it is in bad order. And if your morals are in bad shape, begin working on your morals first. Because life can't grow in poisoned water. If the water is polluted and poisoned, no matter what kind of life, financial life, I don't care what kind of life it is, it's not going to grow healthy and strong in that polluted water. So first make your moral life better, improve upon it, and every other thing will be easier for you if it's right. What does the book says in Genesis? Says that three, pardon me four, four rivers went out from the garden. You who have read Genesis, you will recall this. And became heads. Heads. Four rivers went out from the garden and became heads. What is the garden? The book tells us that G-d put the man in the garden. Is that right? And made the woman as his help meet, as his helper and charged him with tending the garden, taking care of the garden.
So, what is this? It has two meanings. For the society, it means the religious society, the religious community that G-d gave His man. Who is His man? The inspired leader, the Messenger or Prophet. He gave him the garden. Means a community with people, religious people. His wife represents the religious people. And he charged him with tending the garden. That means taking care of the ground, the trees and everything. All of these things represent something too. You don't have patience for all of this today. The ground represents something. The grass, the trees, everything, the birds, all these things in the creation represents something. I mean it has a symbolic meaning that should be interpreted in a religious sense or in a spiritual sense and not in a physical sense. What else it mean? For the individual, it means your own individual conscience. As an individual, your garden is your own conscience.
And in your conscience, there should be you. And you should be the leader who obeys G-d in your own conscience. And you should be making everything else in your conscience follow you as G-d dictates it. You understand in your own conscience you should be the leader and you should be obeying G-d a hundred percent. And you should be leading everything else in your conscience behind you as followers, as a religious community. So that everything in your conscience submits to G-d you see? This is what it means for the individual. But for the society or for the world, it meant that G-d established righteous, righteously guided men, and He charged them with taking care of a religious community. And providing everything that that religious community needs for them. At least attending it, helping to see that these things are available and kept preserved for the people, for the life of the people. Says then four rivers went out from the garden. Now what is this referring to?
If four rivers went out from the garden, then a fifth was the garden, is that right? Four rivers went out from the garden, then the garden must have been an ocean or lake or something, right? And the rivers went out from it. So, we have four rivers and a fifth thing, and a fifth thing. Alright. The garden then is the religious life, which is the fifth. The rivers are the rational mind, the moral mind, the spiritual mind and the material mind. Going out from the religion and going out from the conscience of the people. All of these things should be together in man's conscience. You understand? And all of these things should be in together in religion.
Rational life should be in the religious life. Likewise moral life, spiritual life and material life. You understand? And all of these should be in the conscience of the individual. But Satan with his tricks, I'm not talking about an invisible spirit. I'm talking about a wicked minded world. Satan with his tricks, deceived the religious people, took over the leadership in the religion and begin to divide and conquer. Now see how far this divide and conquer thing goes? Much further back than the Latin people who use it. Goes back to Genesis, divide and conquer. Divide the man's rational life from his moral life, his spiritual life. To take it and take them all and divide them.
And you see the fingers are five, is that right? The fingers are five. And one of them are more important than the rest. That's the thumb. It's not the longest, but it's the most important. Is that right? See, in fact, you only see two joints shooting up from it, three shooting up from the other. But the thumb is the most important. Because it can grip even without the finger. It can grip the hand and hold something. If I didn't have a single finger look, my thumb can hold that. You see? Well, we could hold two. If I just had this finger, we could hold two like this, you see? But there's some grip. It gives the grip, it ties the four into one fist. Is that right? To give a grip, to make a five. And it has a strong grip, it can grip, make a tight grip. So the thumb is a very important one.
But we have four others. They all important and they work together. They all work together. Five fingers work together. Is that right? Yes. They work together. Now what I'm giving you now is what they call symbolic teaching. But this is good for us. What does Christian history tell us? That originally fish was the sign of the Christian people and not a cross. The early Christians didn't use a cross, they used fish. What did the fish mean? It meant life of morality, life of moral strength or moral life. Moral life. And this is the beginning of the religious development. It must start in a moral base.
John the Baptist, how did he begin his mission? Baptizing in the river Jordan. Is that right? Now the book says that one is coming after John who was baptized in fire. Is that right? Baptized in fire. Now Jesus is identified as the one who came behind John baptizing in fire. But let us understand that though he baptized in fire, it doesn't mean that fire and water have to necessarily be different in this particular sense. I'll give you an example from the scripture. Elijah told them to wet the altar. He said pour barrels and barrels, four more barrels on the altar. Water. And then he prayed. And the water blazed up as fire.
Which shows us that in the religious language or in scriptural language, water can be transformed or converted as fire. It can be water and it can also be fire. So, because we're talking about fire, don't think we're not talking about morals. Water in the sense of liquid water means moral teachings that are peaceful, peaceful. In the fiery symbol it means fiery, fiery or aggressive, attacking language. And didn't Elijah used fiery, attacking language on who was it? Jezabel wasn't it? And her false Prophet? Yeah. He used fiery attacking aggressive language. But still in the beginning it's water, it's in water. And Jesus told his disciples, he said, "Come and I'll make you fishermen of men." Is that right? Fishermen of men. So, Jesus began his mission and that's the beginning of his mission. When he started out, he told Peter and others he said "Come I'll make you fishermen of men." So, the beginning of Jesus' mission was in water.
He told them that he would make them fishermen of men, meaning he wanted them to pull men out of water. What does this mean now? Why would he want to pull them out of water if G-d want all of us to start in water? Because that water was unfit. The moral consciousness of that people that Jesus was dealing with in those days had become polluted, poisoned, filthy, unfit. So, Jesus had to fish them out of that water on to land. Now what do we mean when we say fish them out of water on to land? When a fish comes out of water, if he can't breathe, he dies.
Is that right? So, it means take them out of the moral base and bring them into spiritual life. Land is symbolic of spirit. So, Jesus preached spiritual doctrine to those people who were only grounded in a moral philosophy and he converted them from that moral mind into a spiritual nature of submission to the will of G-d. Is that right? And read the Bible, he didn't establish the moral, is that right? He questioned the moral but he didn't establish the moral. He questioned them that condemned the prostitutes. He questioned those that put importance on cleaning pots and doing things in certain ways. Is that right? So, he didn't come to establish the moral teaching. He came to take them out of moral teaching and bring them into spiritual life, and after spiritual life they have to come into moral teaching. Is that right? Now, moral base is first. We have to have a moral base. But there's something even before that moral base.
And what is that? Spirit. Spirit. But we can't build society on spirit. We can only contain people in the spirit. But to build society, we must begin in water. Is that right? I'm talking about practical society. Practical world life. You can't build society just in spiritual, in a spirituality. You have to have a moral base. Not only for religion, this is true for any part of society. They must have a moral base first to build on. Alright, so the book tells us that G-d, to give life to a human being, He breathes His breath into the nostril. Is that right? And the man became a living soul. Is that right? Now He breathed His breath in the nostril and the man became a living soul. Then He had to do other things to the man before that man really became a full human being, living a human life. He breathed His breath into his nostril. Then He made for him a helpmate. Is that right?
And He led him on and on to make him complete. So spiritual life is the first life. When all those babies come, the first thing they have is a spiritual inclination towards us. Is that right? They follow us because they have a spiritual inclination toward us. They follow mama, they follow daddy, they follow the family. And they will obey us because they sense, they feel what we want from them. Is that right? But after they get older and they can understand, we begin to appeal to their moral sense. Is that right? You say, "Why did you do this John. Didn't you know that was wrong?" Is that right? We don't say, didn't we know that was logical? Say why did you do that John. Didn't you know that wasn't logical. No, we say "Didn't you know that was wrong?"
Because the first life for the society when it comes to structuring society is the moral life. We learn right from wrong, good from bad, sweet and sour. Is that right? We learned this first. And then after that life we come into a higher life. So, from the consciousness or from the conscious life that G-d creates, grows the moral life which it should be. The base and the saving food for the whole society. Water, moral life. Then we grow into what we call rational life. Rational life. If we're lucky, we grow into what we call spiritual life.
Now I'm not talking about the first kind of spiritual feelings you get. I'm not talking about spiritual feelings. Spiritual feelings is a sensation. Sensation doesn't necessarily mean a living or life. Things have a sensation before we say they're born. Is that right? So, in our feelings we have a spiritual sensation. We feel G-d, we feel truth, we feel righteousness. But spiritual life means a disciplined life. A baby comes here and he can't sit up, he can't crawl, he can't walk. So, he's in life, but he has no control of himself. He hasn't learned discipline. Is that right? But once he learns discipline, he can walk and balance himself like us. He can use his mouth. He can use his tongue to speak, his eyes to see, his earsto hear. Then we say this is a whole child. Is that right? But he has to grow up to be a whole child. Likewise for our spiritual makeup. We can have spiritual sensations. That doesn't mean we have spiritual life. Our spiritual life hasn’t been structured.
And G-d says that He made the soul and gave it its order and proportion. Is that right? Alright, so we have to come into the proper structure. When we come into the proper structure, then we can live spiritual life like the bird live on the air. The bird has a road in the air. You can't see his road, but he knows it. He takes this road in the air. And I believe he follows it better than you can follow the one on the ground. He follows his road, he knows his destination. The wind blows, the wind shift. He knows how to shift his wing, how to move his tail, how to tilt his head. Or raise it to give him the balance and the order that he needs to keep him going smoothly in his spiritual flight. Isn't that right? Alright. This bird, because he's coming to a spiritual field of movement, he has a superiority over the other creatures in the animal kingdom.
You don't know that? The lion, as bad as he is, he can't get up and catch that bird. When the birds get caught, it's an accident. He doesn't have to get caught. If he sees it in time, he can get up and leave it. And when he gets up, it puts him in a superior position as an observer. Birds go up in the treetop and he's watching all the little creatures moving around. He sees the cat before the cat make up his mind to do his thing, right? He's up in the tree top. He's looking all around, flying all around. He looking all over the kingdom. And that high flying bird, the eagle. Eagle goes up so high that he looks all over the whole country. Goes up so high, sees the whole country, see things moving a hundred miles away.
Enter Here


