02/26/1975
IWDM Study Library
Savior’s Day
Pt. 2

By Imam W. Deen Mohammed

First, to the distinguished, very appreciated brothers, dignified platform we have here. I greet you in peace, as-salamu alaykum
Audience: Alaykum As-salaam.
Brothers and sisters in the audience, our friends who are also our brothers and sisters, I greet you too because you're, obviously, as dignified as we are. As-Salaamu alaykum.
Audience: Alaykum As-salaam.
In the name of Allah, the Beneficent, the Most Merciful, to whom we forever give praise and thanks for his blessing of a people who, just a few years ago, not generations ago but just a few years ago, were unable to think without having first something of the white man's mind to think with. A people who, just a few years ago, were unable to meet together on a serious, very serious question and agree, if that question had not previously been given the approval from the white man. I thank the true and living G-d, who blessed us, who had no head, with a head, the great and the Hon. Elijah Muhammad.
I would like to open my Savior's Day address with a reading from our Bible, which is properly called Quran, a word meaning, 'that which is to be recited.' I read from the Quran, Chapter 75, Section 2. The dead rise. “Does man think he will be left aimless? Was he not a small life germ? In sperm emitted, then he was a clot, so, He created him then made him complete. Then, He made of him two kinds, the male, and the female, is not He?" And I stop, interrupt this quotation from the Quran to make it very clear to you that He, here, is the one, the Almighty, the True and Living G-d. “Is He not powerful to give life to the dead?”
All praises be to Allah, the Lord, Keeper, the Sustainer of all the world, who manifests His presence and His divine will to my father, the Hon. Elijah Muhammad, in the person of Master Wali Fard Muhammad. I have been so honored here today until I cannot go into my address before, first, let you know that I am too small for all this honor. The Hon. Elijah Muhammad, he has formed this house, the Hon. Elijah Muhammad built it from the ground. All he received from the job was, I believe they called it a bill in the language of industry, an order, a written order telling him what had to be done.
What he received was an order to do a job, he had to begin that work from scratch and build a nation. When he accepted that job, he knew who he was working for and that knowledge gave him the strength, and the courage, and the perseverance to stay on that job till the very end. I think I should talk to you a little bit on Hon. Elijah Muhammad, although, this is Savior's Day and if the Hon. Elijah Muhammad in his earthly giving body, was standing here at this moment, I think he would glorify Master Wali Fard Muhammad and he would tell you that this day celebrates his coming to him.
But I feel that it is my duty that I am obligated now to present to you a savior made by a savior. A savior came to the Hon. Elijah Muhammad, and the Hon. Elijah Muhammad, a man from Sandersville, Georgia, born of a preacher, a Baptist preacher, who never agreed to really give himself fully to the church, but who always gave himself fully to the Biblical scripture, that he understood in a significantly different fashion.
He gave himself to scripture, he knew what the scripture say of the coming of the Hidden G-d, that G-d that had been hidden from the world but had to, at the right time, in the right season, under the right conditions, before the right circumstances, that that G-d had to manifest Himself, to show Himself, the G-d that was working out of view, making all these things complicated. So complicated that no could come up with a solution but He Himself.
The Honorable Elijah Muhammad recognized the hidden divine being manifest in one Wali Fard Muhammad and when he recognized this, he began to preach to others of his brothers and sisters who were in the Christian religion, in one degree or another. What we must understand, brothers and sisters, 40 years ago, black people were almost 100% Christian in America and in most of the world, that is, the western hemisphere. Black people were almost 100% Christian. You didn't have to go to Church to be born with a Christian mind.
Even those homes that had residents or people who felt that they weren't clean enough to walk into a Church or that they weren't religious minded enough to participate in Church life, even those families lived Christian lives and defended Christianity if you attacked Christianity in their presence. The Honorable Elijah Muhammad came into his mission at a time when America, Black America, that is, was almost 100% Christian. He began working with our people, telling them that, "Now, you must come into the understanding of your Bible." He says that "G-d has missioned me and I'm preaching to you that your graveyard is the Christian reading of the Bible," and he told his people that "I must resurrect you from that graveyard."
When he preached these words in the early, the middle-late 30s and the early, middle, and late 40s, and even the early 50s, few of our people gave him their attention. Most of them laughed at him and they referred to his small following as those old Muslims, those old Mohammedans, those old fools, those strange people, but they didn't know that the solution to this problem was not to bring something that was like that that had caused the problem. The solution to the problem was to bring something strange, so, Allah himself had to come because, the white man's mind-


