So I bring to you the one who has inspired and continues to inspire us to continue to follow the Honorable Elijah Muhammad, and that is his national representative and his standard bearer, but most important, your brother and my brother, Minister Louis Farrakhan. A'salaamu alaykum. In the name of Allah, the Beneficent, the Merciful, the one God who came in the person of Master Farad Muhammad, to whom praise is due forever, we thank Allah for blessing us as our beloved leader, teacher, and guide, the messenger of Allah, the most honorable Elijah Muhammad. Brothers and sisters, it's always a pleasure to see you again. Those of you who I haven't seen before, I'm very happy and honored to meet you. we are discussing the 12 point program of the Honorable Elijah Muhammad as found on page 170 and 171 a message to the black man in America and while you're turning to those pages if you have a book please share it with someone near to you Thank you. Now, the Honorable Elijah Muhammad gave a message to the black man in America. Never before has there been a specific message tailored to meet the need and to solve the problems of the black man and woman in America. The Honorable Elijah Muhammad's message, if carefully studied, if carefully analyzed and carried into practice there is no problem that the black man and woman in America has that we cannot solve no problem that we cannot solve if we carefully study carefully analyze what Almighty God, Allah, the best knower, has revealed to the Honorable Elijah Muhammad, a message to the black man in America. Now, point number eight. We discussed up to point number seven, where the Honorable Elijah Muhammad says, we must build our own homes, schools, hospitals, and factories. do you agree that we should have these things for ourselves? how many of you have been to a hospital recently and found yourself disrespected or mistreated in that hospital has anyone been to a hospital recently? clinics don't you think brothers and sisters that we as a people need to have hospitals of our own as Jews have Jewish hospitals in every major city where there are Jews you find a Jewish hospital you find Catholic hospitals You find Baptist Methodist hospitals put up by many white Baptists and white Catholics and white Episcopalians or what have you. But very few black people have pooled our resources to set up hospitals to serve the critical medical needs of our people. Until we do things like this build our own homes Yes build our own schools It is criminal neglect on our part that these babies of ours which represent our future should be put in the hands of our slave masters children who are really our enemies to teach our babies what they failed to teach us. Can you see why we're not making any progress one generation after another? We keep repeating the same cycle, come to birth, live and die and pass nothing on to our children. There must be something wrong with the education that we're receiving. And unless we take the reins of education of our young people into our own hands, our enemies will ruin this generation as they ruined us and those before us through purposeful mis-education. We are going to build our own schools, then hospitals, then factories. Oh, brother. Can you see how we would get respect from every other people? I don't care nothing about what white people think of you today. They call us niggers. because in many respects we behave like that. Not our fault. That's the way they taught us. That's the way they trained us. But today there is no excuse for us to continue to play the fool when we can be building intelligent institutions to reflect our needs. Do you think the white man would be so quick to call you nigger if you didn't have to go to him for a job and you had your own factories like the Jews got? Come on. Do you think they'd say, oh, that's a jive nigger, and they saw you employing yourself? having factories that made your own clothes shaped and fashioned your own shoes made your own dresses styled your clothes do you think the white man would be so quick to call you nigger if he saw us doing constructive things? he'd be terrified because that's unusual for us he would know something has intervened All right. Now point number eight. Who would like to read that point? Would anybody like to read it? Yes, ma'am. Do not seek to mix your blood through racial integration. may sound like racism to some but brother and sister what do you see in this instruction from our honorable Elijah Muhammad let's discuss it with someone like to add your thoughts as to why mr. Muhammad has given an order because that's a command do not seek to mix your blood yes my brother one thing that's about how many guys keep racial pride one thing you taught that white man was the devil you mix with the devil you don't need that so if we keep ourselves clean healthy and with our own and love our own and be with our own we won't have to be like the devil. So white men are the devil and I don't want to be around. And that's all Mr. Muhammad would be teaching. Like Mr. Garvey teaching racial pride, not racial hatred. Rachel pride. How can you have racial hatred for your own people? You don't have hatred for white people. You don have racial hatred for white people You don have to stop racial pride in you That all Thank you brother I love the way you express yourself That another minister for the Honorable Elijah Muhammad He's absolutely right. The messenger did not teach racial hatred. This is an act of racial pride. Now he made a statement that some of us might cringe at if this is our first time. He said that the Caucasian is the devil and you don't want to mix your blood with the devil. Now brother, sister, we're going to have to reason together. you know that somebody has been raising an awful lot of hell on this earth and you know that the hell raiser on this earth has not been a spirit a spirit hasn't put all this hell on the earth look at the scriptures I think we read this once before as by one man sin entered into the world. Not by one spirit. By one man sin entered in and death followed. And since that time it says death has passed to all men. Which means that all men have fallen victim to sin. So many people act like the devil, though they are not the real devil. You got many black people who act like Satan. But their nature is not satanic, but they have followed the way of the real devil. Alright, now let's look at this race mixing. Has that helped to degenerate us? as a people. I wonder, is that true? And we got to get into some deep talking. Because you look at Brother Farrakhan, somebody's been playing around in the brother's family. and a lot of our families the very few of us here that are pure African stop original man now brothers and sisters anyone like to comment again why we We shouldn't seek to mix our blood. Anyone have a comment? Yes, sir. Because it's a white man's last hope of survival is to mix his blood with his black woman. It's a white man's last hope of survival to mix his blood with his black woman because he's the most beautiful and finest. and he's been a weaker man and a weaker person on the planet. His blood is thin and he can't continue to exist if he's not able to try and see them to our black woman. So we have to protect her and isolate her and keep her for the death of the black man. Very good, brother. I don't know whether you want to comment on that. Would you like to comment on that? Do you know that that brother is telling the truth? Yes, sir. that the white man is looking at you today, sister. You may not think so, but you are his hope of making it through the destruction of his world into what is called in scripture the hereafter. Now, how does he do this? How does he do this? Yes, ma'am. Number one by the television. Number one by the television program in your mind. You see so many white women on TV right now. So many of our men running after. so that we make the women turn against our men. And then the only man that's elected really would be the white man because he's giving us jobs, job opportunities, a lot of opportunities that our man has not given up, not because it was their fault, but because it was our plan, which has worked very well. And if we start looking at the TV for not just the clothes or whatever and really get the city understanding of what they trying to tell us about this The woman is wearing the clothes and we come to a better understanding So you feel that the television is being utilized to make the black man lust for the white woman and vice versa? Yes sir. We had a movie on the other night. It was called Hick. It started off pretty good. The black guy was fighting for his little sister that died and he was shot in the dope and he was going to go over to the head and get the head but he ended up with the tail because he had the white woman in the den. He didn't know what would happen to his black woman. down there. They threw a white woman in there that was on her own and she was all messed up and everything. And of course, no, he was in the bed. He started off doing the right thing. Then, what's wrong? well that shows you he got sidetracked didn't he now brothers and sisters this is serious talk we can stay on this subject all night and then because right now as we sit here the game for your life and your future is being played high high stakes are there. And the enemy intends to rob you of that promise which Allah has promised for you. Yes, my brethren. It is, as far as I can understand, a matter of reward and plenty. We can have been placed, as I understand, under this white man's rule for a certain number of years after which we shall be saved all israel according to roman 11th chapter all israel shall be saved now to escape the punishment that is here for not having treated us right he wants to enter into our race so that he will be free from punishment. The only way he can escape is to become one of us, because then he will reap the same reward that all of Israel shall reap. Very wisely said, my brother. There's a lot in this humble little class of knowledge. The scripture says all Israel shall be saved. That is the truth. And the scripture further teaches that a people that have been chosen by Allah for his glory, he does not want that people mixing up with the people who have incurred his wrath. The Muslims say in their prayers, Guide us on the right path, the path of those upon whom thou hast bestowed thy favors, not the path of those who go astray or who deviate from the right path. So here's a people that have had prophets from Almighty Allah, and they have murdered their prophets, jailed their prophets, and then corrupted the teachings of their prophets so that they have gone far astray from the path of Almighty God. Now here's a people, an innocent people, who have been victimized by a people who have gone astray, or not gone astray, but deviated from the path of God. There's a difference of just going astray and just absolutely deviating. and the Caucasian is a deviant from the path of God and we have gone astray or rather have been led astray. Now if as it was with Moses Pharaoh had reached a time when the God of justice was going to pay Pharaoh for his evil then the God of justice sent Moses to separate Israel from Pharaoh so that Israel would not partake of the judgment of Pharaoh and again he did not want Israel

mixing with the Egyptians because there was a divine purpose for Israel. That is put there in the Bible and Holy Quran for our instruction. For today we have the fruition, the fulfillment of that which that was a prophetic symbolic picture of. Here we are growing up among a wicked people. What makes them wicked? What is the standard or criterion by which we judge this people as being wicked? Because they give you an old hat or shoe, are they good? Because they give you a job, are they good? Because they sweetheart with you, is that good? No, the standard or criterion by which we measure things that are good and that which is not good is the word and law of Almighty God. When that law is given, that law is the criterion and the discrimination that allows us to see what is good and what is other than good. Now if this people, into whose hands our fathers were sold, obeyed the law given by Moses, Jesus, and Muhammad, peace be upon them all, then we say this is a good people. But if they violate fragrantly the divine law, then this isn't evil and a wicked people. After all, you never had a prophet. You never had a prophet. Not since your fathers landed in America and were stripped of the knowledge of self and robbed completely by a caveman. You have not had a teacher from God. So the only teacher that you and I have had is the same man that brought our fathers into slavery. Now the honorable Elijah Muhammad says, do not mix your blood through racial integration. Now that to some may sound awful, but in the divine light it's just right. Now look, brother and sister, we're going to look at this close now. The white man recognizes that his sperm is him, but he also recognizes if he plants his seed in the womb of a black woman she will color his seed for him and give him a place in that world that he's not fit to go into truth. And he's after you, sisters, night and day now. He has made your man just about worth me. And I mean no disrespect, brothers. He has made you and me nearly worthless. Our women cannot find comfort in us as men. We are looking at manhood as a sex thing. When Allah has relegated sex to a very minute part of what really is a man. And so the white man comes, he offers her a job. A job that you can't get in his society, he gives it to her. Is that right? She is in... Pardon me, sir? I know. Yes, sir. That's all right. Everything is all right. Brothers at home. See, when you're at home, you just feel like... do what you feel like you should do at home. I love it. And brothers and sisters, this is what we're here for, to discuss things intelligently to draw some sense out of the teachings not to draw sense the teachings of Muhammad is sense but we need to discuss it in order to understand it Now, if you look at the office buildings downtown, you go downtown some afternoon or morning and you see our women downtown, jammed up, right? in the offices of our enemies. Is that right? They will give you a job. They won't give your man nothing. And when he gets the job, and you may be married to a man that's working, you will probably find that your salary is bigger than his. and what he's doing to you subtly, he's telling you you don't need him for nothing. I'm giving you the job. I'm looking out for you, black woman. What is he doing for you? But filling you up with a lot of babies that I, white man talking, got to take care of. So why bother with that old so-and-so, so-and-so, so-and-so? Come on with me. Now you a typist, you probably typed 25, 30 words a minute. And got you a big executive typewriting job. And you know you can't type. That's the hype. and if you type 40, 50 words a minute that's fine but he has you there for another purpose before long he'll come out invite you to a social set then he starts telling little nasty jokes watching how you laugh and how you act and react then he'll come in one day and he'll pat you on your rear end. Yes, he will. Yes, sir. He will ask you to do little small favors leading to another favor. Sometimes he don't waste too much time. He gets right to the point. I've hired you, but you know, you have to be nice. Right. And when I call you for niceties, don't tell me you don't feel well. Because I can always get another secretary. You're not the only one that types 35 or 40 words a minute. You know, you are a fine, fine one. I say that in the best way. You're beautiful. And he knows that you are a wonderful woman. And he knows that your man don't know how to handle you. And he knows that you need love and attention. So he gives you little attention. Notice him. He'll open the door for you. Yes, he will. and he'll talk nice to you. Your man don't know how to talk to you. He's wooing you. See? Pulling you in. Because he wants, as brother said, to plant his seed in you that you may carry him into a world that time and the God of time has forbidden him to enter unless he submits to do the will of God. But he's not leaving you alone. No, brother, you are the answer, as the Honorable Elijah Muhammad said to us, to the Bible's great parable of Samson. You remember Samson and Delilah? That Delilah was something, wasn't she? I mean, poor Samson had all that hair. And Delilah got up next to him to find out the secret of his strength Now you know a man strength is not in his hair His hair was braided, I think, into seven strands or something of the kind. All of this is symbolic wisdom. Hair is symbolic of knowledge. Knowledge. And the seven strands of hair represents divine, unlimited, spiritual wisdom of the God. when you are wrapped up in the spiritual wisdom of the creator of the heavens and the earth you are indeed a strong man the Quran puts it in another language, another way It says, O soul that is at rest, well pleased with thy Lord, and thy Lord well pleased with thee. That is a man or woman so in harmony with the will of God till he or she becomes a reflector of the wisdom and the will of God. That's strength. That is power. Prophet Muhammad, Moses, Jesus, all of the worthies of God who submitted to God, they were strong men. Strong men. And their disciples who disciplined their lives according to the ways and teachings and actions of the prophet became strong men. So the world says after the prophet is gone I do not want to see any strong men. In the Genesis of the Bible, Eve did not get deceived until after Adam was gone. The community of Jesus did not fall until after Jesus was gone. The community of Moses did not fall until after Moses was gone. The community of Prophet Muhammad did not fall until at least three centuries after Prophet Muhammad was gone. And the community of the Honorable Elijah Muhammad did not fall until after he was gone. What is it about the going of a prophet or the going of a divine light that makes the people fall? Oh, brother, you mind if we get into it a minute? We all race mixers. Now, brothers and sisters, we recognize that the sun is the light of the universe. It gives us life like an energy. Right? That's right. It is the prime moving force in our solar system. As a representative of God himself. He has given us the funds to teach us a lesson. Now there are nine planets revolving around the sun. The moon, as honorably like Muhammad has thought, is a dead piece of our planet. And the scientists now agree with honorable Elias Muhammad that the moon is very much like the earth with the exception that the moon has no water. Now the sun gives light to the moon. The moon don't have any light of its own. And the moon then reflects light to the earth when the earth is in the shadow of the light As the light strikes the earth on this side it casts a shadow on this side. Is that right? That That shadow is called darkness. But God in His infinite mercy does not want us to live in darkness so He gives us the moon and He gives us thought. Is that right? Now the world of prophets is like that moon. A prophet's light is not clear. No prophet brought really clear light. Come on. You think it's one thing and you find it's a hole there because moonlight doesn't illuminate it properly. Well, in the absence of the divine light of Almighty God, man has walked in darkness with only prophet light to guide him. And that's why the scripture says we see darkly. We know in part and we prophesy in part. Meaning the prophets didn't know the full thing. Moses didn't know the full thing. Jesus didn't know the full thing because they were prophets but they were leading to a big event coming down the road. Now the book that Allah revealed to Prophet Muhammad is called Al-Nur, the light. That's right. All right. Now, we're getting to something. Bear with me. When the moon gives life to the earth, it ripens the fruit. The cross. That's right. The moon is very heavy. Fine. Anytime the prophet of God leads the people, it's like a magnetic force. that was pulling on the moral nature of the people going. And if you notice, it is the sun and the moon that have a strong attracting power on the waters of the earth. And it is God and his prophet and the truth that the prophet brought that tried at the people, that pulled the people up from a level of a beast to live on the human and divine plan. That's right. Now when that prophet leaves the strength of that life if it is not preserved in a word and in an example then the people begin to slowly fall back to the earth. Have you noticed in the morning when you go out you see dew in the grass but the dew wasn't there in the day not there in the day you meet it in the morning and you go back around 11 12 it's gone how did it get there what happened moisture all around you the Sun draws the water up and so does the moon but in the night that which the moon is drawn up she don't have the power to pull it all the way up to form clouds like the Sun so it falls back to the earth in the night as do when the prophet of God leaves the must have strong disciples and witnesses who have disciplined their lives according to the light the word and example of the prophet and as long as that light and that example shines, the life of the prophet is alive in the people and they continue to grow in moral and spiritual strength. But if anyone can corrupt the bearers of light after the prophet is gone, then his whole community goes down to nothing. That's right. Listen, now.

Moses went to the mountain and Aaron was overcome and the Samiri or the hypocrites among the followers of Moses got power and led the people astray now listen The people couldn't hold on to the light. Therefore, they began to just fall backwards. Prophet Muhammad, before we get to Jesus, you notice when Jesus went to the cross, Peter denied. The other disciples fell apart. there was nobody to hold up the light, people fell to nothing. Prophet Muhammad, the most successful of them all, because in Abu Bakr, in Umar, in Ali, in Uthman, he had four great Khalif or Khalif as it is properly said but with every Khalif it got weaker so that by the time the fourth Khalif came around the effect of the prophet of God and his practice was weakening so that his word became true three generations after me will no longer be of me and that is true right up to this very day that those who followed Prophet Muhammad peace be upon him they have fallen short of what was expected so a new thing has to come about to revive them and the whole religious world Now, here we are in the United States of America. Elijah Muhammad, raised up in our midst. Some say he's not a messenger of God, he's an imposter. All right. But look at the effect and the historical equivalent. the man taught and as long as he was among us his followers remained strong moral upright fighting for the liberation of our people when the honorable Elijah Muhammad departed from us and his spokesman was overcome and his ministers were overcome and a new thing came up then the divine light of strength that was in them was taken from them and they began to fall back to the earth. I'm talking about the Muslim followers of the Honorable Elijah Muhammad. This is the story of Samson in many different shades and forms When God sends you someone to share divine light with you, he's giving you strength. And when someone deceives you out of that light, they are robbing you of your strength. And they usually do it by deceit. And that was Delilah's trick, to use deceit. well you know brothers and sisters we can delve deeply into that but there's no need to go any more deeply into that let us just go now to you black men spiritually you are a superior man to any human being that is on the earth now wait just a minute brother Farrakhan are you teaching racial or color superiority no I'm not look does not the Quran teach us that Allah is he who exalts a nation And if Allah has chosen a people to be exalted then you cannot say that you are inferior if God has chosen you and blessed you with knowledge to be put on a superior level That's His doing, not yours, not mine. We're not superior on our own. We are superior as a blessing of Almighty God, Allah. Allah made the Jews great according to the Holy Quran. He made them an exalted nation. And they were superior and they abused it. The Quran says to the Arabs, I have made you an exalted nation and they abused it. Now your turn has come. Allah wants to make of you an exalted nation through the conferring on you of wisdom. now black man here comes Delilah she sees strength coming to you she sees you are going to come into your own and replace the white man and she sees how she has no future with him her future is with you. So here she comes now leaving her man ever deserting him because he's not real. And she knows it better than you. And here she comes after you now. And he is behind her coming after you. He is sending her after you. The Honorable Elijah Muhammad said the white man has worked on his woman for 4,000 years. She was an ugly wretch when she was in the hills and cavesides of Europe, brother. She didn't have no form like she have today. But if you notice these young white girls. They got farm brothers. These old white women, 70 years old. You don't see them getting all fat and sloppy. They work and diet and you see them down in the gymnasium keeping themselves ready to trap a black man. They're ready for you now, brother. They got them forms like Coca-Cola bottles and they're coming after Samson. Oh, Samson, be careful. She wants to blind you. Shave your head. See, shaving your head means make you forget your God, make you forget the principles that made you strong. And after you forget the God and the principles that made you strong, then she herself turns you over to your enemies to be destroyed. My brothers, this is what she's planning for you now. don't mix your blood we have been spotted up enough as a people the honorable Elijah Muhammad said what is left of us let's try to keep it together keep the white woman out of your family you don't need her you've got a beautiful woman she demands more of you than a good time in the evening she demands more that's why many of us run from our black woman but you come on and study the wisdom of the Holy Quran and I guarantee you you'll be a very strong and good man for a very strong and good woman Now, let's get back to this racial mixing of the blood. Brother said the white man blood is thinner than ours Did you say that brother Didn you say that The Honorable Elijah Muhammad taught us that the word Caucasian mean weak-boned, weak-blooded, and stale-faced. When you call a man a Caucasian, you're not giving him a nice name. I mean that's just another way of saying devil, you know what I mean? Weak-blooded, weak-boned, and stale-faced. Now you know when somebody say you look pale, they're telling you you look sick. Here's a man, they call him pale-faced. Tell him this body have a little sickness here. Now don't you know when he mixes his blood in with ours, he thins our blood out physically and he makes us more susceptible to his degenerate way of life. You don't go into the, we say, the interior of Africa, you don't find a faggot there. No, no, no, no, no. In African language, they don't even have a word for sissy. No, brother. No. I don't care how savage our people went in Africa, they didn't get that bad. Never. Do you know that it was the Caucasian in the Middle East? yeah he didn't have no faggot till whitey came on a plane he's a deviation and he started deviation right there in the holy land when Lot was sent to Sodom and Gomorrah Lot said to them what is this what is this men coming to men with lust as they should come to a female. And the Quran teaches... That's just less than 6,000 years ago. To this day brother you go to Africa you don't find no words for sissy. Lesbian is not in their language. Because that's not in their natural mode or behavior. Isn't that something? Well, that being true, oh brother, Come on brother man. Tell it all. No we can't tell it all. Because we don't know it all. But one day if we are faithful and be righteous servants Allah will give us much more than we have. And it still won't be all. die babies in knowledge. But dear brothers and sisters mixing his blood with us makes us now susceptible to his weak degenerate way of life. As I said in the in the we call it the backwoods African, away from where Whitey is in the city, up in the bush country. You don't find that. You just don't find it. There's no word for rape in their language. And the women walk around with their breasts out. And there's no, I mean men don't think nothing of that. The women will be breastfeeding their children, brother, right out in the public. You don't see no man stand out like he wants some too. This is this European's crazy way I don mean to be funny but it true Now look at you and me We been with him for 400 years And from the time he brought our fathers into slavery he was making our women bed wenches he called them for his own young boys He was making the man, yes, a buck or a stud. and if he liked you, you had a good physique and all, he would make you a homo for him and he would teach his little young boys to do that with the little young slave boys. Now he comes into our woman and mixes with our woman and produces children that are his own offspring. It's not the seed of a black man. It's his own degenerate, weak seed in you. Now this light-skinned child is growing up the seed of the slave master. Hair different, eyes different, and really his nature getting different. then of course he can't marry a white woman so he marries back into a black woman or marry nothing he have children into a black woman so the the blood is getting a little thicker but still he's mixing in with you now and you look at us faggots everywhere today homosexuals everywhere today degenerates everywhere. This poor black woman need a man and the fine men that are here available when you tap them up you find it's a broken wrist. I mean that's a shame. That's a shame. Poor brother he sees a fine sister and he says how are you baby? She says fine. He's talking like a man. This is why the Honorable Elijah Muhammad wants no further mixing of the race. Because we are in the most critical period in the history of the world. A time when everything that is in us is coming out. The Quran calls it the manifestation of defects. And in other places it's called the manifestation of losses. Now, I mean, what is in us is coming out. And the Almighty God is creating circumstances to produce a mass exorcism of the people. So if you have homosexual leanings, brother and sister, I mean, it's going to come out of you today. You can't hide in the FOI. You can't hide in no woman's group. You can't hide in no macho talk. You can't hide in no feminine action. If that thing is in you, God is going to bring it out, give it manifestation, allow it to come forth so you can see yourself as you really are, then get a chance to clean yourself up and be made bright and ready for the kingdom of Islam. God has to do this it's painful and I mean look brother it's not easy to look in the mirror and see yourself as you really are but that's what God is going to make us do today the wise Allah is shaping the whole thing so that what is in us comes out then you can deal with it you can't deal with it if it's hidden in you can only deal with it after it manifests itself. All right. Can you see now why we don't want no race mixing? Hey, this is deep. Dangerous. And if Allah has chosen you to lift up the light of Islam for the entire world. He does not want you mixing with the people who have incurred his displeasure. That's all. Simple as that. This is the modern Pharaoh. He's going to catch modern hell. God don't want you involved with it. So come out of her, the scripture says, so you be not partakers of her plan. All right, point number nine. Let's move on. Yes, little brother?

I'm a sister's car, a fine home, and you were able to live in a fine home. Thank you. Thank you, son. Let me get a fine home for some family to get everything else. Now you know When the children say That's right Now he's got it in his head And he's going to be watching Say well you got a nice home What you doing with that big nice car You sleeping in it Get a home first For yourself And your family don't spend eight nine ten thousand dollars for a car when you know your children and your family have a home don't have a home go get a nice place for your family to live in and ride a scooter because the same way you save the money to get a car you save that same money you can get a home and a home will allow your children the room to grow to expand as we mentioned last week the Honorable Elijah Muhammad is saying to us you don't need to be living all up on top of each other. Every human being needs room to grow. You need privacy. Every human being needs a degree of privacy. Your children need privacy. You can't do that if seven of you living in two rooms. Do you know what this overcrowding does? It creates immorality. Yes, my brother. Several years ago, at the Institute of Technology, they had an extent, before it goes to Tide Center. And I had a, some of the people who had been given paper audits to see, and it took rest. and since 18 cages have, they have just enough food, you know, enough room to, you know, just survive. They find rats that were crowded up, fought a lot, okay? And then they had another experience with rats, and they gave, you know, enough space, you know, they kind of, maybe one or two, you know, caves. And they found out that if rats were, you know, if rats were, you know, they'd close together, they fought a lot. And in this painting, this is the concept of how to deal with the problem. You already provided it. That's exactly what it is. Well, that's correct. That is correct. And if you notice, my brothers, since we've been living in these overcrowded conditions, the killing of us, by us, has so greatly increased that now, I mean, it's reached actual epidemic proportion. And it's because of a planned disorientation of black people. And if not, the enemy's fault is really our fault as men, because if we were men, we would not let our enemy build homes for us, we would do that for ourselves. Remember brother last week said, I think it's our brother here, he said, no creature lets any other creature build its home. Every creature that Allah created, that creature builds a home for itself according to its own unique specifications. You and I have to do that for ourselves and our people. Yes, brother. Yes, brother. Yes, they have overcrowdedness in India and they have it also in China. But they don't have the people stacked up like this. They're crowded in streets. In Tokyo it's like that. In many parts of the Far East it like that but the people are not stacked up over each other but here you have several things introduced You have a physical environment where there is overcrowded and then you don have what the Indian has That Indian, I don't care where he is, he knows he's an Indian. the Chinese know he's Chinese you and I didn't know who we were and robbed totally and then spoiled and the Indian has never been educated to hate himself nor the Chinese that has happened to us now when you put us like that in that mental condition into a physical condition of overcrowding, all of those factors together become highly explosive. I think that's the difference. Yes, brother? There's another difference too. In India and China, the countries are crowded. In America, there's an artificial crowd. The country is crowded, the land is crowded. That's correct. People can see that the country's not crowded, but then when they go back home and at one another, they can see that they're forced to live in conditions that they just hate. They start hating the conditions of all those things in society. Absolutely correct. The Honorable Elijah Muhammad said to me, brother, that there's 200 million people, and at the time they had just passed nearly 200 million mark, the messenger said to us that 500 million people could live very well in America without serious overcrowding. and you drive out of where we live, just as brother said, you find space and space and more space. Now overcrowding is a managed or we would say a predetermined condition. By design. Yes, sir. All right, so we agree? fine clothes. Now what do you think fine clothes is? Let me ask what is fine clothes? That's what a good question is. What is fine clothes? Do you think fine clothes represents something that you paid $250 for? I mean do you realize that this white man is killing us with clothing? He has designed clothes for death. Would you believe that? He's got us into things that are pressing the arteries in the veins. The blood circulation is not good. things all choked up around the neck choked up around the waist choked up around the ankle then my dear dear dear sister lord have mercy we have to define or design some shoes for your poor little feet to see you sisters walking down the street in those ugly stilts and you can hardly walk me I don't know why you do this but you love the style but look at you I mean look I mean up on your toes I mean just oh you're so tipped over if you look at the angles of how you are walking and what it's doing to your posture and to your anatomy it's throwing you all out of shape you wonder why you're beginning to sag all in here You wonder why you're having ovary problems and all these female problems. They come from these crazy styles that Whitey put you in. You ain't doing too much better. That you put super fly out there, brother, and then dress us like it. Here we're walking down the street with platform. I mean, platform, brother. Nah, pocketbooks. All white folks got to do creative style. I have my clutch bag, huh? He making a sissy out of us, isn't sure? Yes sir we in the back I just said I asking one of uncle you know a little old And I said what do you think about these little small bags that you know got to win He said, oh, no, I'd rather have a suitcase. He'd rather have a suitcase. That big boy says, you look more like a man. Yes sir. You see what they are doing is they're socializing to their standards. See there's only going to be a renewed few that's going to be socializing to their standards because a renewed few is going to banff on the masses of people. Then the white men are going to banff on them. You see they're setting this up. Like y'all girls or what have you seen y'all because I'm attending the university of Kermit. And I've seen your gold hair and they kind of be blinded. and uh, they're all white. And um, happened to be one of the girls, these girls didn't join the black fraternity. She happened to join the white fraternity. And they do all kinds of things in the white fraternity. They go out to student schools. Now, I don't believe, really believe, fraternity. But then again, later you know, I saw her coming in there, I don't know what to think of. Then the guys been coming in there, you know, what What they got for guys now, they don't call them pantyhose, they got to call them man-hose. Man-hose. Yeah, man-hose or whatever. You see they're changing your standards now. You're not a man anymore, you're a woman. You're not a woman anymore, you're a man. So you got to watch out for that. If you don't, you're going to be dead. I'm telling you the truth, man. Can you imagine that man-hose? and brothers just trying to squeeze into these things and then you go tipping down the street with your high heels your manholes and your earrings in your ears and your permanent Lord have mercy you see how white he's fixing us up I mean there was a time when a man wouldn't be caught dead in curlers. I mean, we're in the streets with curlers in our hands. I mean, Whitey has thrown us back to the 1930s. We're in tough shape. Yes, brother. Oh, Lord. fine clothes. Now as I mentioned to you last week, you may not agree but I think it's something you should study. Your nature calls for the best and that's why white folks always know that they can get more from you if they show you something that really looks good they'll get double from you because your nature calls for the best white folks don't care about nothing they'll wear rags but not you in fact you wouldn't dress in jeans if the white man didn't style in jeans and make jeans popular no black man would dress in jeans. That ain't your thing. Ain't your thing. You say, well, you know, I don't want to dress in a suit. I want to dress in a jeans. Well, all of it is him. One is him in a more leisure form. Another is him in a more dress-up form. But it's all him. He's the boss of that. fine clothes don't spend your hard-earned money for these fine suits fine dresses fine shoes look and this may sound strange but my wife is here she can bear me with me I hate creditors I do not like bills I never like to make bills I try to live within my means I try and when I was only making $35 a week well I'm sorry it's $39 was what I sorry because they took out for old age and some other kind of time Can you imagine a man with three children making 44 dollars a week And do you know every week I had from five to seven dollars to giving charity to the cause of Islam. Not smoking, not drinking. I didn't go to the movies and I didn't find nothing amusing in the dance hall. I ate one meal a day. Hardly ever got so much as a cold. You could look at my medicine cabinet and you would not find medicine. Because we didn't get sick. So all the money that we used to throw away on foolishness, we had that now to better our standard of living. Now I bought an old bedroom set. I don't know how many people slept in it. But I paid for it cash. And after we bombed the sheet, I mean the mattress, I didn't know what was in it, but we bombed that thing and we had a bed. I only had enough furniture for three rooms in a five room apartment. I just closed off two rooms. Got me a little wallpaper. My wife and I tried to make the little apartment presentable. There was Farrakhan. He's not a mechanic in the least sense. And I'm up there trying to pay for a wall. We made it look pretty nice. We bought a kitchen set. and by degrees I found an old frame that somebody threw out of a living room set. And since I worked in the garment section of Boston, I went and bought some remnant material and had a set reupholstered. and you wouldn't have known that set from the finest set anywhere. Went to an old junk dealer and bought a rug for $20 for my living room. And man, that little apartment was coming on. But I didn't owe nobody nothing. I didn't have no cue coming to me telling me boy you missed your payment I always want to be a man and I hate the white man to tell me that I owe him and then talk down to me because I owe him I want to kill him I'm just telling you the truth I want to kill him My brother used to get suits out of the pawn shop. I don't know who died in it. I'd take it to the cleaners. And I wore a suit for $5. And I looked pretty nice for $5. took me a long time before I was able to buy a new suit. Now I'm not ashamed to say that this is the way we live. Times got so bad in my house till my wife and I would steal out in the night. and go down to a place in Boston called Haymarket Square or the Fanule Market. And at the end of the night when they have sold all that they're going to sell, they throw the rest of the food in the street. And we would get a shopping bag and go down there and pick up the carrots, pick up the greens, pick up whatever was there in the street. come on home smiling at each other and had a meal for those babies. And I lived this way doggone near nine years as a minister by Honorable Elijah Muhammad.

When some of my brothers here in Chicago were living very well, my wife and I hardly had beans to eat. But you know the scripture is true. If you are faithful over little, Allah will make you ruler one day over much. and I say this to you because we practice this because we were forced to practice this and we survive and I'm saying right now we need to survive we don't need to show off if you don't have it let's not fake it be what you are and don't you know through the unity of us as a group the Quran and the Sunnah of prophet Muhammad says that if you have a bowl of soup and your brother has none half of your soup belongs to your brother you want for your brother what you want for yourself and don't you know when we can live like that brothers and sisters we all will make it through the roughest time and these little children will never go to bed hungry as long as we find the path of unity among ourselves. Now we have a few more principles to talk on and I think we've closed out. We're not doing too bad. I know it's taking a long time to get through this book. Taking too long. But we're getting some money. Yes, sir. Fine, sir. Yes, sir. man, strong father, and a strong husband. I don't know if I'm going to fall for my time. Go back. Go for myself. Yes, sir. Thank you, brother. I will touch on that tonight at the end of the class as we touch these last two points. You want to read the next one, son? Yes, sir. Now, son, when they talk about these monkeys, I just want to say the Quran puts it like this the life of this world is a life of sport and play monkeys don't have serious life they do lots of playing and jumping that's right son And you know what? White people pay a black man to play and to jump and to run and to prolly. And that's why your basketball players get $100,000 a year. Your ball players get all this big money. Your scientists, your educators, your teachers, they get nothing. Because this is a world of thought and play. The Quran also refers to this life as a transitory life. It is a life in transit. Going toward a higher life. So don't get wrapped up in the life of this world. For this life is going to end. For Allah created nothing. In jest. for joking, for playing. No, we do not play. Muslims do very little playing. And that's why they don't understand Ayatollah Khomeini. They don't understand a Muslim. Man clothes down all disco. They say, isn't that terrible? Ooh, if Allah blessed me to live and get strong, your boogalooing day is open. Oh, yeah. You know the dance you're going to do? The only kind of dance you're going to do is a dance in praise of the God. I can't see nothing else. What have we got to dance for? All that energy you putting on the floor Suppose we put that energy into building hospitals and schools and farms and factories and international trade and commerce Don you know all that energy brother Why we be a great people overnight Oh if we get strong there won be no bars in the community close everyone yes sir close them up tight yes brother you not going to be drunk no you don't need that we got a way for you to get high a righteous high yes brother you going to be so high brother, you'll never want to come down because brother, this alcohol is killing you. Yeah, we'll show you how to get high this is no joke. You already mentioned it last week. They call God the most high God and you know he don't use more coke than anybody. Just have to put you on the plane of God. feeding your mind the wisdom of God like the old song say every round goes higher and higher. You just don't need an artificial high. We close down bars. Yes. Oh yes. And movies to let them stay open. If they show movies that inspire, motivate, stimulate the people to write this conduct, then you can have all the movies you want. But we ain't going to have no little nudie movies for you. Oh, no. Porno stuff? You don't need that. You see yourself naked every day. Isn't that right? Shouldn't be no big thing seeing somebody else naked. You looking at yourself? You sick or something? all we got to do is get strong and we'll make our community a decent place to live. Yeah, brother, the monkeys jump around a lot. Well, spend your money among yourselves. How's that? Why should we spend our money among ourselves? Somebody tell me, quick. Yes, sir. And that was yesterday I was in the office of the staff. And this wife had seven black women with Seth Rahn. She said, I'm hoping you don't see you, though. And you're still going to keep in the teeth by buying a little water. You're still going to keep in the teeth by getting a little bit. Pull that junk down. Yeah. Yes, my brother. sisters, the more we spend our money with our own, the more we keep the money with in our circle. The more you keep the money in the circle, the stronger your circle becomes. That's why we have to provide goods and services for our people so that the money can stay. The Honorable Elijah Muhammad was not a capitalist brother. No. But he recognized that in order for us to build strength, we had to do what? Keep the money in our own circle. And the only way you can keep the money in your own circle, you've got to provide what people spend their money on. Food, clothing, shelter, etc. All right. Question number 11. Build an economic system among yourselves. You agree we should do that? Yes, sir. how do you do that we'll get into that next time and the last point protect your women do we agree now sister you know we're very jealous we don't like you downtown working for white we know you have to work but it kind of hurts to see you down there taking all that abuse so how do you put a stop to it brother set up your own factories and tell her come on sweetheart and work for us and then don't you pat on it brother a woman as I close on that point is a creature that Allah created for us to honor and respect That's right. When you think that your mother, God created her so magnificently to produce you and me and us. And her nature is such that she's a born teacher, every one of them. Whatever she likes, she'll make her children like. Whatever she dislikes, she'll make her children dislike it. That shows you she's a teacher. The children don't have no way to resist her instruction. The children don't come into the world rebellious. They come in ready for you, mother, to shape and mold the child. So if the child cannot resist whatever you teach them, if you teach the child foolishness, what will the child be? So if we allow you to become a wise woman, an intelligent woman, a strong woman, then you will make a people after what you are. This is why Jesus said, if the tree is corrupt, the fruit thereof is also corrupt. You bear the fruit. If the fruit is no good, that means that the mama is generally no good. And if mama is no good, it's because there's a no good man somewhere who has made a good woman turn sour. That's right. Now I'll go back and we'll close out. See this moon and this earth and this sun. The moon symbolically in many senses represents the female. That's right. She doesn't have the sea as the moon doesn't have the light and gets light and light from the sun. So does a woman get that germ of light from the man. But not only does he get the dream of life, of life from a man, if the man is bright, he shines his light on that woman and that woman reflects his life to the children, which is represented by the earth. Now, if you doubt this, any woman that falls in love with a man begins to reflect him. She begins to talk like him. She begins to reflect his thinking, his style, his manner, because you are a natural reflector. That's why God can't blame you. See? Well in a sense you can. But because you're not quite like the moon. Because you're a thinking individual. The moon can't think, you can. So the Quran says, the believing men and the believing women. And the hypocritical men and the hypocritical women. So if you turn hypocrite, it ain't because somebody else is a hypocrite, that's you too. But, now as the woman reflects the man, then whatever she gets from a man, she passes on. And whatever she fails to get, she cannot get. Oh, brother, that's sad. Can you see it? Now look, she's a born receptacle. How can she give love to her children if she doesn't get love from us? How can she pass on what she doesn't receive? It's really sad and yet beautiful to show you how connected we are. Now to close it out brother asked the question how can a man be a good father a good husband right And in general a good man Well I going to say it very briefly tonight but we go into it at length to be the will of Allah in the future. Now, man cannot be man unless God is almost in his life. the fully developed man is a man who has found his fullness in the creator this is very very important since the creator gave us this form and gave us our nature He's the only one that can feed it properly and nurture it to its fullness in its evolutionary development. Is that right? Yes, sir. This is why when Allah sends us examples, he always raises a man from among men as an example for men. And in that man, the attributes and characteristics of the divine being are reflected to men. Now look, brother. It is only the divine characteristics of Allah that draws and magnetizes and pulls a man. when you see those qualities in a man it inspires submission yes it does when Moses walked Abraham Noah Jesus and Muhammad and I don't be Elijah Muhammad these men had qualities in them that magnetized us and we were drawn to these men and through these men we received an impress of the divine character of the God coming through the prophet to us and we began to grow into manhood. When you get the attributes of Allah, look at this. Bismillahirrahmanirrahim. The two chief attributes of Allah, they say in English, beneficence, mercy. The root of both of these words is love. not the cheap common love but the divine love of the divine Creator now when a man is beneficent beneficent bene in the Italian or Spanish bene means good Bono, Bene is good. Sisson deals with the word making, doing or making good. The Quran keeps extolling men, those who believe and are the doers of good to others, there is no fear for them, nor shall they grieve. So the thing that makes a man is when he submits to the will of Almighty God, then the attributes of God become reflected through that man, and he is stamped with his worship of God. You see a sign in him of his worship of God and you find him doing good, you find him showing mercy, you find him loving, you find him just, you find him kind, you find him wise and you find him powerful and you find him a grant of security and peace. This is why God permits us to wear his attributes because only we can reflect him in the most perfect manner of all the creatures man is the most perfect reflection of the attributes of God because the sun though it reflects God it cannot think it cannot will but man can think and man can will and God will this is God yes sir yes sir

So when we begin to reflect the attributes of God, then a real man is coming up. The God, even though he's the best knower, look at this. He hides himself. Look at this. He don't come out and say, here I am everybody. I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I did all this. dig me and bog down and worship. He don't do that. He hides his face. He makes you seek him. He don't come out and show himself. He hides himself. Say, you want to find me? Study my creatures. Study what I created. And let me see if you really want to seek your maker, your creator. Oh, he's a humble God. He don't like ostentatious. He doesn't like proud, arrogant, vain, egotistical people. He hates the proud because his nature is humble. And he wants us to reflect him. And he don't like us exultingly walking the earth proud and arrogant. This is why he's displeased with white folks. Because his way is an humble way. men should never be proud and boastful they should be humble humble doesn't mean weak it doesn't mean you're not asserting yourself but it does mean that you recognize that you are a reflection of something greater than yourself oh it's so wonderful brother now to be man to me to brother Farrakhan is to be a vessel of the living God. To be man is to be a reflection of the God. That's real, true man. That's your potential. That's my potential. We not only have a human potential, but man has a divine potential. Right. now to my Muslim brethren who are present it is said that prophet Muhammad peace be upon him was the most noble example of human conduct why? if he's the highest example his morals according to the Quran were sublime meaning the highest morality then he reflected God in the best way of any man that ever lived before his time. So that means what? That man has the capacity to reflect the attributes of God and that's why he gives us these attributes to where? Mohammed, Kareem, Hassan, Aziz. Because you can reflect those characteristics. But we shouldn't put those names on. I am the child of the Creator and then not reflect the Creator, then we're doing a disservice to the names of the divine being. To be a husband means to nourish, to nurture something that you don't own that is in your trust. your wife is not what you own she is in your trust your children you do not own they are in your trust and if you are a husband then a husband is a guide is a protector is a nurture is a nourisher, is a teacher. All of this is husbanding. How can you be that unless somebody is that to you? See? And I mean, this is why, honestly to goodness, I thank Allah for the honorable Elijah Muhammad. I got to say it over and over again because that man, by the grace of Allah, shaped me. I was ready to be more than so are you But you have to have someone that you trust to put yourself in their hands Now that difficult in this kind of world This is why the white man breaks your heart and mind of trust for your fellow man. And you say, ain't no man gonna guide me. I reach the Holy Kwan, brother. hush your mouth there's some man guiding you either doing it subliminally or the best way to guide you is to do it through suggestion so that you don't even know you're being guided that way you can hold on to your false pride Now look, I mean, you know, when you really wake up to what being a man is, being a man is being able to submit yourself to God through a man. Allah don't give you air to submit to He never has and He never will He gives you an example of what pleases Him Then tells you take that as your model and go by that Men say, ah, He's only a mortal like ourselves this is the argument that they gave all the prophets we don't see him as anything more than us we deem him to be one of the meanest of the people he comes from a low stature but he's the choice of the God he's an example all prophets, all messengers were examples and they asked the people in these words every prophet in the Quran says I say to you worship none but your Lord and my Lord. That was their ever recurring message. Set up no partner with Allah. And he said follow me. Follow me. Follow me. now you know that if you just look at it on a cheap base level you say I ain't following him make him great follow myself see men don't like to follow men they feel like it's taking something away from them I'm a man just like him Hell I got to follow him for. I know just as much as him. This is what gets us all in trouble. When Allah has chosen a man, he chose him for men to follow. Now look, I'm just going to give you an example. They say Elijah Muhammad was not a good man. I can't say that. Look, look at the men who followed him. I mean, Malcolm was unknown. He came to Muhammad. Now you all know Malcolm X. But there was somebody that he followed to get on the path. Yes, there came a time when he didn't want to follow that teacher anymore. But at that time, look at what he had gotten from that teacher to become great. See? Even though the Imam Wallace Muhammad does not follow his father, yet everything he got, he got it from his father. He don't follow his father, but he's trying to follow. Even in a funny way, he got to come on back and pay some respect to his daddy. I mean, look. Look, brother, you would never have heard of the man if it were not for his father. If he was going to be heard from before, you would have heard from him before. But he stepped in when the big man left and then came into national prominence because he was the son of a man that was internationally famous. Now if you don want to honor your father how can you be honored truly among men We can't hide behind excuses. We can't say that the father didn't teach Islam and that's why I'm not honoring him because he didn't teach Islam. I beg your pardon. Who said that you have a corner on what is Islam? hell, Islam been in existence from the creation of the universe you just got here yesterday with your punkified self why the hell you want why the hell why the hell you want to become an expert on an eternal system and you and I just got in the universe a few days ago and going to leave a few days from now hell no all you know about Islam is just that little corner that God allowed you to see but the infinitesimally magnificent scope of Islam is the scope of the nature and wisdom of God himself and that you can't fathom so why come I mean why you know why make yourself drunk by giving yourself to name Islamic scholar. Only Allah can confer that kind of scholarship on an individual. You can't confer it on yourself. We done got so scholarly now, we're going to judge one another. Who says we understand the depth of the words of Allah? Oh, one word of Allah. It's so deep. Oh brother and sister to argue like this is foolish. It's foolish for Muslims to sit and argue with each other over a religion or doctrine. The Quran gives us very clear principles. It says when Muslims disagree then you leave it in the hands of Allah for he is best able to judge between his servants and if you serve Allah I'm going to give you that respect and if I say I serve Allah give me respect. I mean the Quran says you are not to say to a man when he says to you assalamu alaikum and if he says he's a worshiper of Allah you're not supposed to say he's a disbeliever? No. This is highly improper. So my dear brothers and sisters, we need to grow. In order to grow, we just need to be made more humble. More like the God. Now I'm going to leave you with this scripture from the Bible. Which is very comforting to me. and the Almighty Elijah Muhammad got after me one day this is the truth he kind of whooped me up pretty bad because I was quoting the Bible so much and he said to me one day he was just very angry and he says brother the book of Muhammad is the Holy Quran let me hear you quote that book and he was very angry and he was stamped that like you know you're putting something on a man and then he told me he says now brother he says when you get in trouble he didn't say if he said when you get in trouble because he knew I was headed for some trouble he said you take this holy Quran and you nurse it like a baby does a baby bottle and it will comfort you and it will guide you. I'm going to close with a passage from the Bible. I'm not being disrespectful but this passage means a lot to me Jesus was about to leave and he said to his disciples take my yoke upon you and learn of me for I am meek and lonely of heart and you will find rest unto your souls To me Jesus was saying to his disciples I have taught you much and you have been like little children under me. Prophet Muhammad said the same. I'm leaving in his farewell message. I'm leaving you. But I'm asking you now to take my yoke, my burden, my mission on your shoulders. Because the disciples of the prophet receive the mantle of his mission when he leaves. but in order for you to carry the yoke now look at the word yoke I think that's a very expressive word because if you ever grew up on a farm which I didn't if you ever saw an ox under a yoke I mean look man he's in it ain't he he can't do nothing He got to go straight on down the road. Is that right? Well, that is the way a man is or a woman when they're fixed by God. Can't get away from your mission if you try. You're in it now. So he says, take my yoke upon you. Take my burden. Take my mission. But now he says this. Notice now, after you take my yoke, he said, learn of me. You can't take the mission of Muhammad without learning the man himself. Because the man is the key to the mission. You cannot carry out Muhammad's work without a profound understanding of the man himself. And until you love the man, you don't have the key to the success of his work. I mean, this is true. But now, how can you learn a profound man as Muhammad or a profound man as Jesus if you are bothered by pride, arrogance? He says, learn of me. Learn of me. Learn of my spirit. learn what makes me what I am he says I am meek and I'm lowly of heart and if you study the history of Jesus and the history of prophet Muhammad which to me is talking about the same man right to me the Jesus of the book and Muhammad of the Quran they're one in the same individual though we know that the Jesus Jesus was here 2,000 years ago but the Jesus of the New Testament the Christ that one that was the seal in the end of it all really talking about Muhammad but it's another angle you know how you take a picture of a thing at a different angle it's taking a picture of Muhammad at another angle now look he says learn of me I am meek and then he qualifies that with saying I am I am lowly of heart. Now you know what that means to me? He doesn't assume anything about his own greatness, his own magnificence. Even though God has conferred on him the highest revelation, the greatest knowledge, the greatest position. Yet he don't think greatness of himself in his heart. He thinks great of Allah. Now, if you and I could say like this, as I have said, and I don't say this in a bragging way, but I, seeing the Honorable Elijah Muhammad, recognizing that his work was and is the redemption of the black man. The resurrection of the black man and woman in America and throughout the world. The transformation of our lives from a low life into a righteous life. Then he says, take my yoke upon you. You is singular and you is collective. But before you do it, learn of me.

For I am meek and I am lowly of heart. And I can truly say, brothers and sisters, as I close, that my experience in these last five years since the absence of the Honorable Elijah Muhammad has hurled me down into the mud, the muck, the mire to come up again cleansed. Mud is a purifier. And the Quran teaches that hell is meant for purification. When Allah sends you into hell for a while that ain't always curse. That's sometimes to make you to see things in yourself that you need to correct for a higher calling down the road. you know and I can truly and truthfully and honestly say to you that I think very very little of myself personally in this work but I see the greatness of you above and beyond myself for only when you see men as greater than you can you serve men? And in serving men in the way of God you are serving the God. So brothers and sisters let us be humble let us reflect God and to reflect Him in our home is to be a winner because she is the woman of God. And she cannot resist God. She only resists us when we come in the way of God or in the name of God, but not in the way of God. You see, God don't come home to a woman and say, All right, baby, I'm a Muslim now. And you're going to be a moose on the mower all week quick. You understand? Take that short dress off, baby, and put on them long clothes or else. See, that's not the way God does things. He didn't treat you that way. He knocked at the door of your intelligence. A gentle knock. We don't kick the door down. I'm here, brother. Would you open up and receive me? Very sweet and gentle. Why don't you go home to your wife and be that kind of sweet and gentle man. And teach her, if you have knowledge, impart it with wisdom. And she may buck at it for a minute, puff up her lips. But when you leave, she'll say, That nigga's getting two steps from somewhere. You know, a woman likes it when she tries to get you upset, and the more she tries to get you upset, the cooler you become, and the sweeter you become. Now, just a minute, honey. Boy, when you leave the house, you see a smile almost in the back of her ears. That man is something. She loves to see you in control. Every woman wants to see her man in control. There's not a wife of a husband that doesn't want to see that husband be great because she don't want to be married to no chump. Isn't that the truth, sister? Yes, that is. All right, I think we're here to... I've enjoyed always, I always enjoy being with you. Enjoy your brother. I always enjoy. I do lots of talking when I come. And that's why sometimes I got to give the brothers a chance to help me with the class because it seems like you move so much faster when I'm not here. because I gotta stop and milk a point that maybe you have already milked and squeezed to death before you got here, you know. But I gotta hold that nature to teach down you know so that the class can profit more But I thank you for your patience with me too I want to make a few announcements okay On the 18th of May we will be going to New York. I know the FOI is going. The MGT is going. And I'm going back to New York, by Allah's help, for a visit, just for a visit. By Allah's help, I'm not going to leave Chicago. I have fallen in love with this city, with the black people in this city, and I'm really beginning to see more and more that there are some very powerful brothers and sisters in this city that if we ever get our heads together in Chicago it's all over. I mean New York will follow the beat of Chicago just like she did when Elijah Muhammad was here when Noble Drew Ali was here. The East Coast followed the beat of this man that was here. Chicago got some powerful minds. I mean, I'm glad to be here to learn from you myself. But I have to go back home to New York where I was crucified. I mean, you do understand that? They murdered me in essence. But I'm going home, and I would love that you come along if you'd like to. The sentiment in New York is really high. They want to know what are we going to do? to restore the worth of the Honorable Elijah Muhammad. And people, many of them are just curious. Many of them thought we were dead. When I say we, I mean the Muslims, and they thought that Brother Farrakhan in particular was dead somewhere. They hadn't heard nothing from me in years. And it's very surprising to them that we are alive and thanks to Allah well. so I would love that you be there if it's humanly possible for you to make it because I think I sense history here because if you see Muslims and you're not seeing followers of Elijah Muhammad just yet grouping together and you see the brothers and sisters clean again standing upright again, tall again, then it will send a signal to the world from the capital, the media capital of the world that the nation of Islam is alive and is well. And I can assure you that after that, there will be repercussions. you know because the United States government and many of our brothers in the Arab world the KGB the Russian Secret Service all were involved in the destruction of the nation of Islam and do you, yes this is true do you know brother that when the nation of Islam was strong communism was weak in the black community. But the moment the nation went out of sight, socialism, Marxist-Leninist theory became predominant or started moving among the masses of the people. And I don't know the situation in Afghanistan but I would like to get a very good knowledge of it. But if what I'm hearing is true, it is a portent of things to come, that an ideological struggle will take place, as it has already been in place. Did you know that Trotsky and Lenin and Stalin met in the 30s to discuss the black man in America and what they would do? And they talked about offering to us an independent black state I mean to make us think we were going to get there but the whole object of their talk was to move the black man in America into the vanguard of struggle against the capitalist government of the United States. It's not that people care about you, but they want to use your frustration to further their own cause. Now, brother and sister, that kind of thinking is still present today. And we who love our people do not want to see our people used as pawns for anybody else's struggle. We have legitimate struggle to wage and it is our struggle and we must determine the nature the timing and the weapons that we use in our own struggle nobody else should determine that for us you agree all praise due to Allah well he can get some money from me man stopped me the other day on the street I ain't driving. I was driving and he wanted to wipe the windshield of my car. And the car didn't need no wiping. But that brother looked at me and said, look man, he said, I'm trying to make an honest living, brother. I said I hear you I mean I heard deep down and that brother stopped and I went in my pocket I got me a dollar man he's only looking for a quarter I gave that man a dollar cause I know look if a man is sincerely out there trying to earn an honest living that same man could be beating up our grandmama or robbing some old man and what not so it's good to help somebody to keep them honest. Anyway Yes, we thank a lot that Sister Andrea had a safe delivery. Yes, ma'am. And Sister Rose, a brother lieutenant's wife, had a little baby boy too yesterday. Now we're not clapping for the unmarried ones that get started. You know, brother, you just can't beat a brotherhood. If it's real and sincere, you can't beat it. And I think that those of us who understand the teachings of the prophets, their greatest desire was to establish a brotherhood where there were no big I's and no little U's and no invidious distinctions, no class and caste, but that we all felt a part. And that's what we want to produce among ourselves. Now, every meeting after the economic program is fully discussed, we're going to set aside at least 30 minutes every week to get into the economic thing so that we can get an economic beginning up off the ground. that will be done each week after we discuss the economic programs and brother Phil Johnson has a new record out that next week brother we want to hear the record we want to set up a set up a sound system and before I come on we want to hear this record because I mean when you have a talented brother in our midst we need to know what is in our midst. Brother Phil Johnson of course has many hit records, many hit records. You want to say something about it brother Let me hear from the enemy I might add that this was just, I'm controlling the revenue. That's the best part. Well, that's the best part about it. Another part of the song is a message type song for the mind, still sticking under the woman's clothes. Yes, sir. Thank you for the mind of the people. That is a big one. Yes. We're going to talk about the message this time. Yes. Now are there any others here who are in the performing arts at all? You are. What is your role or field? Is that right? Yes. may I wait stand up brother stand up brother we want to encourage the brothers and sisters yes sir Stand up, brother. Now, that brother is so humble. Bless his heart. Isn't that something? Now, brothers and sisters, what we want to do is take our great talent and let it be free to lift up that talent in the most productive, inspirational, motivational way. because the Caucasian controls the market he twists the gift of Allah and makes us use our talent for filth and degeneracy which keeps our people mired down in the mud now what we want to be able to do is free the talent and let the talent speak and do you know something my talented brothers and sisters we can write plays we can write songs we can play our instruments in such a way where the people will be moved to greatness now when I I want to say this to my dear Muslim brothers who are here when I was in Mecca they said to me, I wanted to engage in films. And they told me it was un-Islamic. And the scholars at Mecca said to me that music is the work of the devil. And I told them, go to hell. and go to hell I said I'm going back to the United States see I don't let no Arab he can't do a damn thing for me excuse my expression and he can't even show me which way the prophet went because I'm sure if he points it out he went the other way I don't care to be instructed by a world that God is displeased with. And he's going to tell me that movie is sinful and that this is tradition. I said, show it to me in the Quran. He says, well, it is a tradition of the great disciples of the prophets. We cannot say, sir, thank you. Man, you get the hell out of my face. I'll bust you in your mouth. I went over there, I had my little nigger bag, you know what I mean? I wasn't quite as refined as I am now. I'd have busted that chump in his teeth. Said, man, I'm going back to the United States and I'm going to show you.

that you don't understand the Quran and you don't understand Allah I shouldn't have asked you nothing you Johnny come lately I came with the universe how am I gonna ask you guidance on something that God has put in my very nature the book Hope comes out of our nature. Believe that. Islam is our nature. Now look, David was a prophet of God and he was the chief musician. Now music, as it has a negative pole, it also has a positive pole. For God has created everything with a negative and a positive. Now how you use it determines the nature and the shape of your own soul. But the thing that can be used to bring people down can also be used to bring people up. Now David used Goliath's sword and cut off his own head with his own sword. Beloved musicians white folks have used the sword of music to make our people or to keep our people in a degenerate spirit I appeal and plead to musicians and artists to use your gifts to do the reverse. Yes, sir. And I intend by the help of Allah to give you an example of what I mean. Enough said. See, that's my field too. Yes, sir. Yes, I ain't been in it for three decades, bro. Long time. I'm an old man at this. Yes, brother and sister. Music, everything that Allah creatively gives it a sound. And if you use your sound for the glory of Allah, He loves that. And the proof of that is the Quran itself. The Quran itself. You do not, you do not speak the Quran in the language that you talk to each other When you speak to Allah you talk to Allah in beautiful tones So when the Muslim prays to the God and reads the Quran he don say بسم الله الرحمن الرحيم الحمد لله رب الله العالمين الرحمن الرحيم مالك يوم الدين Iyaka nabudu Iyaka nasta'iin Ighdana sirat al-mu-staqin Asirat al-ladhin Ina amta alayhim Gairil mazhudhi Alayhim Wallah daalim You alright? Aslamu alaikum Thank you for a wonderful, beautiful, marvelous evening. On your way out, there's pastry, there's coffee, and there is each other. And that's the best refreshment. Let us all please stand. Follow me with your hands outstretched in this manner would you please follow me silently in the Muslim prayer In the name of Allah the Beneficent the Merciful all praise is due to Allah the Lord of the world the Beneficent, the Merciful, Master of the day of judgment in which we now live. The alone do we serve, and to The alone do we beseech for help. Guide us on the right path, the path of those upon whom thou hast bestowed favors not of those upon whom thine wrath is brought down nor of those who go astray after they've heard thy teaching Say he, Allah is one Allah is he of whom nothing is independent but upon whom we all depend He begets not nor is he begotten and there is none like him I bear witness that nothing deserves to be served or worshipped beside Allah who came in the person of Master Farad Muhammad to whom praise is due forever. And I bear witness at the Honorable Elijah. Muhammad is thy true servant and thy last apostle. Amen. Brothers and sisters, when you leave, do nothing unto anyone that you would not like to have done unto yourself. Could everyone write, never be the aggressor, but if anyone molests you, don't you turn the other cheek. Fight with those who fight with you. Until next week, salaam alaikum.