We thank Allah for blessing us with our beloved leader, teacher, and guide, the messenger of Allah to the black man and woman of America and the world, the Honorable Elijah Muhammad. I greet you, my beloved brothers and sisters, with the greeting words of peace in the Arabic language. Assalamu alaykum. How are you all this evening? I'm fine. Very good. I must say that we have eaten so well at the minister's home that I got a little sleepy. You know how we are. and we traveled all day from early this morning we went to the men's colony the prison at San Luis Obispo to see our great brother brother Geronimo Pratt I don't know how familiar you are with our brother in his case, but I promised him today that we would do our best to make known to audiences wherever we go of the plight of this brother of ours. he has not say accepted Islam to the best of my knowledge but that's irrelevant he's a struggling black brother who was jailed unjustly by the government of America and the state of California for a crime that he did not commit He was in solitary confinement for seven long years. Why? Because he's a black man who joined the army and fought in Vietnam and was the most decorated black soldiers to come out of Vietnam. As long as he was a Negro, a colored boy, with decorations, that's all right. But he joined the Black Panther Party. This made him, in the eyes of the government, a radical revolutionary with a skill that he had learned from them coupled with his natural ability. They felt that they had to remove Elmore Geronimo Pratt from our midst, lest he might teach and train other black men the way he was trained. So they trumped up charges against him, and as I said, he was in solitary confinement for seven long years. Then, through the Freedom of Information Act, the files on the brother began to leak information that the counterintelligence program of the United States government was responsible for his imprisonment. Evidence has come out that they wiretap the Panther office here in Oakland and knew that the brother was right here in Oakland at the time that they said he was supposed to be in Los Angeles committing a murder. but they would not introduce the evidence that would free him because they wanted him to remain incarcerated. Now after that and many more bits of evidence has come out that he has been framed The judges refuse to give him a neutro And they refuse to recognize their own law. And according to what I've heard from his lawyers, they have said the only way he'll come out is if he breaks out or if he comes out dead. That is the hatred that the government has for strong black men who are unwilling to compromise with a wicked, unjust system. That's right. His crime is that he's talented, gifted, black. Yes, sir. Strong, brave, and unwilling to bend. That's right. And though he's been incarcerated for ten long years now, seven years in the hole, he has not bent. Come on, man. So I told brother that we would do all in our power to make as many people in this country and outside of the country aware of the plight of Elmer Geronimo Pratt. There are many more brothers and sisters just like him in the prisons of America. And dear brothers and sisters, as we move to the final phase of our own struggle for liberation, many more of us will be unjustly imprisoned. Many more of us will be falsely charged. Some of us may lose our lives. But we must be willing to pay the price that is necessary to get total liberation for not some of our people, but all of our people here in America, in the Caribbean, in Africa. in the Isles of the Pacific, in Central and South America, wherever black people are, we cannot rest until everyone is free. And that means we have a lifelong job, a lifelong commitment. And if we make the sacrifice that is necessary to be made, our children in their generation will pick up the legacy of our sacrifice and continue to make sacrifices until our people are ultimately free. Dear brothers and sisters, after seeing brother and driving back about five hours, we are a little fatigued and we have to rush from here and run to the airplane to fly all night to get to our next stop but I don't want to shortchange you one bit I am so happy to meet you to see you to talk with you to share with you, to learn from you, and to impart to you some of the things that we have learned as students of the Honorable Elijah Muhammad. Tonight, I would like to talk to you about the destruction of the nation of Islam and our efforts to rebuild the work of the Honorable Elijah Muhammad and the part that you can play in this effort. Before I begin, I would like to make this point very clear. The Honorable Elijah Muhammad was not a man just for Muslims. The Honorable Elijah Muhammad was passionately concerned for the plight of black people here and throughout the earth He has put within those of us who love him the love of black people And that love that he has placed within us by his word, his work, and his example makes us willing to give our lives as well as to live our lives for the freedom, justice and equality of all of our people. The Muslims who sacrifice much to build the nation of Islam are greatly hurt and pained and some may never get themselves back together again because they just do not understand why all of this happened. Sometimes if we just know why a thing has happened we can go through it better. It's like a beautiful little baby that is innocent and all of a sudden mother learns the baby is dead and the question mother asks is why? Why my child? Though the Holy Quran, the book of scripture of the Muslims teaches us that no soul dies but by the permission of Allah and a Muslim is one who is resigned to the will of God and we know that life comes from God and death also is ordained by God so when death comes the Muslim is not supposed to fall apart he looks at it as the will of Almighty God or by the permissive will of God death has come. So he tries to submit to the will of God and he enters into a state of peace and contentment of mind. So the Holy Quran says to the Muslims, those who believe and are the doers of good to others, there is no fear for them nor shall they grieve. But yet many Muslims are in a state of grief over the loss of the nation of Islam, over the absence of the Honorable Elijah Muhammad. many Muslims whose dedication and commitment to the Honorable Elijah Muhammad was unlike anything seen in America since this was a founded republic or since our fathers set the soles of their feet in the Western Hemisphere we have not seen that kind of commitment and dedication to a man as we witnessed in the brothers and sisters who were followers of the Honorable Elijah Muhammad. And then, all of a sudden, all that we worked for, all that we sacrificed for, all that we gave our all for was gone. Now, if only we could understand why. And I think that if I can supply the why, not only to what happened to the nation, but what happened to the Panther Party, What happened to the UNIA? What happened to the followers of Noble Drew Ali? What happened to the great black leaders and their organizations? Every organization that came up for black people was destroyed by the United States government. and no organization that the government destroyed has ever been able to come back again. You are witnessing a miracle because for the first time since the government has been destroying black leaders and black groups, the nation of Islam is rising again. And I not saying this because I a part of that rise I saying it because as I traveled around the country in New York City in May over 10 people came out to meet me on my return to New York There is not a black leader, black teacher, black spokesman, black nothing in America today that can go anywhere and draw 10,000 black people without a band, music, Stevie Wonder, the Commodores, Stephanie Mills, and everybody backing them up. But all it said on the poster was Louis Farrakhan, national representative of the Honorable Elijah Muhammad. That's right. Nearly 4,000 came out in Los Angeles and paid $3 to get in. nearly 2500 came out in Atlanta, Georgia 3000 in St. Louis, Missouri in a little city town what is it that the people want to know they want answers they want to know why all of this is going on we just left Detroit 3,000 came out in Detroit listen 600 accepted the teaching of the honor of Elijah Muhammad in one day in New York 2180 people accepted the teaching of the honor of Elijah Muhammad in one day 800 accepted in Los Angeles in one day and the white man is looking the government is shook because they thought Elijah was dead but as long as one of us believes as long as one of us is willing to stand regardless to whether it costs us our life the Honorable Elijah Muhammad's work will go on to greater heights in his absence than it did in his presence because his absence testifies more of his greatness than his presence. There's an old saying, you never miss the water until the well runs dry. And there's another saying that absence makes the heart grow fonder. And it was not until the Honorable Elijah Muhammad was out of our presence that we began to lament over his absence because in his absence we saw not only the Muslims tumble down, but we saw every black group, every black organization tumble down. And we saw white folks who used to be careful how they handled black leaders begin to disrespect them all now because there was no more radical movement to look at. White folks had destroyed it all. Well, so they thought. Why did this happen? in the Quran in a chapter called Al-Ankabut the spider an answer is given if understood that chapter reads and I quote In the name of Allah, the Beneficent, the Merciful. Allah reminds us that He is the Beneficent. He is the Merciful. What he does, you may not understand it But if you follow it long enough Good will come out of that which appears no good Then he opens saying I, Allah, am the best knower If I left it to you You would certainly choose another way but I am the best

knower and when I, the best knower, choose the way for you, I don't choose ease, I choose a path of difficulty. Listen now, not one of us would choose difficulty. Every one of us, if we had to choose a way, we want to say, which way is easier? I'll take the easy road. But when Allah chooses for you. He knows best. He knows that there's greatness in each one of us and it cannot come out with an easy life. It can only come out through adversity, through trial, through tribulation, through affliction. So he clearly states, I'm the beneficent. He wants to remind you, I'm not going to harm you but a little. But in the end, it's going to come out good for you. I am the beneficent. I am the merciful. And I, Allah, am the best knower. I don't ever want my servants to forget that. I know what you know not. So trust in my knowledge. then he asks a question do men think that they will be left alone on saying we believe and will not be tried and indeed we tried those before them so Allah will certainly know those who are true and he will know the liars. Wait a minute. You mean Allah don't know the liars? And Allah doesn't know the truthful? He's a foreknowing God. Of course He does. But He wants to make manifest a liar that is hiding out among truthful people. Don't you know the destruction of every organization is because there are hypocrites in that organization who fake that they are with you, but they are really not? Come on now. If your organization has no principles, no moral code, no ethical code, well, all kind of things can hang out there. the most hypocritical organizations that you will ever find are those who are supposed to adhere to certain strict codes of discipline. Now many of you grew up in strict homes. How many of you had very strict parents? Would you raise your hands? All right. Well, if you had a real strict parent, you learned how to act at a young age. Am I lying? When you came home to mommy or daddy, you put it on. Hi, mom. Where you been? Oh, I was just out playing ball. See, you had to act. Some of you that were in the holiness church. And mama wanted you, would you dress a certain length? Be home at a certain time? You had to act like you was holy as long as you were in the sight of mother. But when you got out of mother's sight, you pulled the skirt up. Took the thing off your head. Let it go. Smoke a little joint or two. Pardon the expression. And then come back home like you wasn't high. trying to let mama think you were still a part of the holiness faith and you would go to church on sunday and while the rest of them was leaping over the benches you would and the spirit too i mean that's that's a hell of a thing to have to fake your life But the more strict the teachings, the more phony you'll find the people. Do you understand? This Holy Quran is a book of divine law. It is a law that is strict, but it is a law that is correct. And if that law is followed it protects the society it protects the family it protects the marriage it protects the young girl the young boy it protects the poor the orphan the weak the woman They are all protected by the laws of the Quran. But it takes a strong man and woman to live by strong law. And we live in a world that fosters weakness. Loves and promotes weakness. So when you would be strong somebody that don't want nothing strong, stop pulling on the strong man to pull him down. Now look. The nation of Islam under the leadership of the Honorable Elijah Muhammad had a very strict code. Strict. Anybody found breaking the law, they got put out of our society. It was rather embarrassing. You know? So that meant that a lot of folk were hiding. A lot of folk really wanted to do wrong, but were scared to be exposed, so they suppressed wrong. In the Islamic world, how many of you saw the death of a princess? There's a Saudi Arabian sister who was caught in the act of, was it the fornication? Did they take her head? What did they do? They took her head, didn't they? They chop their head off. That's what I'm saying. They don't play. The law is strict. When I was in Mecca, I saw money changers in Mecca with their safes wide open. all kind of money in the faith all over the world because the pilgrims come from all over the world but you don't find nobody going up there alright this is a stick up give me your money no sir brother they leave all of their wares that they sell out in the open. When they go to make prayer, they just cover their wear with a little cloth and go and make prayers. When they come back, their wares are there. If they catch you stealing after Jew my prayer on Friday, no big long jail sentence, heavy trial. Did you or did you not? Where are the witnesses? so-and-so is guilty fine and they call out everybody who comes to prayer they come out to witness the justice of the law we do not hold the law behind closed doors that is not making example for the society to keep straight so when somebody violates the law the hand is chopped off in the public just the blade coming down swiftly quickly and the hand is gone and the crowd hollers out Allahu Akbar meaning God is great meaning as long as God's law is upheld whoever breaks it gets the punishment and those in whose heart is a disease who may want steal when they see that hand fly by they say uh-uh I ain't going that way listen brother a friend of mine went to make his pilgrimage some Arab fella had gotten excited evidently and went to trying to rape a few Muslim sisters I mean this is awful brother after Jew my prayer on that Friday a big black brother gleaming arms in the noon day sun came out with his long sharp scimitar and I mean they pushed with three of them involved push one down one blow my you just see the head tumble and the crowd hollers out a long way by the children are there looking grown everybody witnessing no you don cover your eye baby I want you to see what breaking the law will bring you And I mean three heads were lopped off just like that. Now when you got a society where the law is strong like that, people may still want to do the act, but they hide it. The desire is there, but they're afraid of the consequence, but they don't kill the desire. It's still there. And that's why many of those that live there, the moment they get out of Saudi Arabia, get to Paris, get to London, get to Bahrain, get to America, hey, brother, they break right on down and go to boogieing like the rest of the people because righteousness was not in the core of the heart. They did righteousness under fear of breaking the divine law of God. And in reality, that's not really a righteous person. See, a strong law makes you look right even though your heart is devious. Now I'm coming to something. Bear with me a few minutes. I'm not gonna be long Man, I really got to fly now Brother put the watch on me Now why am I saying this? If you remember When Imam Ayatollah Khomeini Came to power in Iran That revolutionary government began trying all of the enemies of the Iranian people. Is that right? And every day in the news, you heard so many and so many shot by a firing squad. They made us believe that the hostages were catching so much hell over there. People say, oh, the poor hostages, the poor hostages. One of those white poor hostages was so pent up he got next to an Iranian girl and made her pregnant. How locked up could he have been? He got locked up enough for her to get knocked up. I mean, excuse me, pregnant. And the Iranian law was killer. And the law falls to her eldest brother or her own father has got to take their life for breaking the law. I heard the honorable Elijah Muhammad say he will not rest until this Quran is the law that governs the people here. Now, you say not hardly, honey. But I will tell you very frankly and truthfully, we are never going to be a great people, a strong people, until we come under strong law. Would you agree? We have to teach our people first. but when you have brothers and sisters who are willing to sell drugs to our people they're killing our people so you're putting a penalty of death on the people so the penalty for you is what that's right And there will come a time very shortly where we will take that penalty upon all those who visit death on our people. We will kill them and make them public examples for the rest. to make you know, we don't care nothing about what other folks think. Our people are tired of seeing their little teenagers going to their graves because of a dope pusher. So we don't have to kill but a few, and the others will certainly get the message. Now that may sound very harsh, but it isn't. Our elderly that walk the streets being set upon by our young. We can't allow that to continue. You agree? Our elderly have paid a price young brothers sisters for us to be who we are what we are and where we are We are to be their protectors in their old age not those who prey upon them And if any, in the law of the Bible, in the Torah, when a young child rolls up against a parent and smacked a parent, the penalty is death. You don't strike your parents. In fact, the Quran forbids you even to say so much as to your parents. parents. Now why is that? I don't care if your mother is a junkie, if your mother is a prostitute. That is the source through which life came to you. And when you were a little baby and couldn't take care of yourself, that mother looked after you, changed your nasty diapers, fed you, clothed you, suffered with you, lost sleep over you, and now you're 14, 15, 16, 18, getting strength now, and mama getting a little old. Now you want to strike out at her? The hell you will. This day and time, you will pay for that. That's the law. All of this is coming, brothers and sisters. We have to force our own black intellectuals, our own black people that have money. Stop putting your money in banks alone. Use your money to create jobs for the young, so that the young don't have to be out here selling dope and stealing. If you won't use your money for the good of the people who you live among, then you're an enemy to your people. You may end up losing everything. Now, now, now, I don't want to sound like a wild-eyed radical. But brothers and sisters, those that love you will not play with you for the liberation of our people. There is no revolutionary struggle going on anywhere in the world where weak, sissified men and women are getting their freedom. People are getting their freedom because they're willing to pay the price. We're getting freedom all over the world because we realize there are certain things that we cannot compromise with. And we cannot compromise with our young girls being turned into prostitutes. We can't compromise that. Sorry, she's beautiful. Let her remain beautiful. Leave her alone. Don't make a whore out of your women and girls. Don't allow any old strange man to come in and use your woman. Deposit his filth, his disease in your black woman just because you want a dollar. In every revolutionary movement on the earth, all pimps were killed. Yes, in every revolutionary movement, all faggots were killed. In every revolutionary movement on the earth, all lesbians were killed. In every revolutionary movement on the earth, you are a dope user and hung up on dope. If you can't get cured, you'll kill. We'll make your behind into soap. Because if you can't do nothing useful on top of the ground, then let us hurry and put your behind in the ground so you can be some use underground. Understand that? The law of the holy Quran is a strong law, and it makes strong men and strong women. Now, the Honorable Elijah Muhammad was a very merciful teacher. He knew that we were weak by living under white rule all these years. We are weak to live right. Weak to be strong. So he said, let me teach you and when you make a mistake, I will punish you by giving you a little time away from the society. That's mercy.

Now brothers and sisters, the government saw that there was too much discipline among the Muslims, too much potential power among us to do him some evil. And Allah saw that among us there were liars. So a test had to be devised in order to separate the liars from the truthful. How many of you are former or followers of our honor be Elijah Muhammad were in the temple or the nation? Messy here? All right. If you were in the nation, you remember the lessons. Do you? You couldn't get into the nation unless you recited your lesson. Is that right? Lesson number one is called, listen, first term examination assignment of Mr. Elijah Muhammad. We didn't understand. We didn't know what a term was. And what do you mean first term examination assignment of Mr. Elijah Muhammad? Bear with me a few minutes. A term is a fixed period of time. The last messenger of God is to be a man the like of Moses. Moses' first term among Israel, before he went to the mountain to receive the criterion or the law, was 40 years. Is that right? Come on now. Prophet Muhammad was 40 years old when he received the Quran. Is that right? All these are signs of something. When Master Farad Muhammad, the teacher of the Honorable Elijah Muhammad left, it was 1934. And when the Honorable Elijah Muhammad delivered his last sermon to us it was 1974 so from 1934 to 1974 is how many years 40 years then the first term of Elijah Muhammad was then up and when the first term is up then those who were students would expect an examination on on their assignment. Now why do you examine a student? You examine a student to see how well they learned their studies. Because you are coming up for a diploma and either we pass you out of this world into a better one or you are of those ordained to be left behind. Now how are you going to be tested? The Honorable Elijah Muhammad took our minds down out of the sky Which is a necessity Now listen brothers and sisters The Holy Quran teaches us that Allah will never change the condition of a people Until they what? Change it themselves You sitting around waiting on God, Allah, Jehovah, Jah. He's not coming down out the sky to clear no path for you fool. No disrespect intended. No You see the path me clearing You ate today Your arm strong You got a sickle You got a What do you call that? Machete Then get your lazy rump And clear the path And you can say God help me To help myself To clear the path But if I sit down on my backside and say Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, and read surah after surah of the Quran and then sit down on my behind and on my prayer rub and don't get up and go to work for my own liberation and for the building of a mighty strong nation, then God will never do it for us. And all you'll have is a bunch of religious ritual that's making a day. Well, it's true now. We got a whole lot of religious fools in the world. Oh I go to church every Sunday Yes I never miss her And I even got the Holy Ghost last time I was there Got poor Muslims go to mosque, every Juma prayer, make their prayers, their five prayers, very dutiful, hard-working believers, holy, but a slave. I don't want to be no holy slave how in the hell can I pray and then go out and vote for Jimmy Carter how can I pray look man what the hell am I praying for my prayer should be to deliver the foot of an enemy off my neck and if I'm going to pray then join the system pray to the God of righteousness then join a wicked government and a wicked system then what the hell are you praying for? There's no beneficence in Carter and there ain't no mercy in the government. I got to get up. I want to be holy. But I want to be free. Oh, it's so nice to think that God, you know, will do it all for us, you know. I mean, that's real sweet, you know. Making God a punk, you know. I mean, that's sad, brother. Everybody all over the world kicking stone backside for their liberation. And you believe that you're just going to sit around and pray and mope and groan and sing. And you're going to get free one day? No, brother and sister You're going to have to roll up your sleeves Like every people on earth rolled up their sleeves We're going to have to unite As brothers and sisters With a common cause And a common destiny And a common aim And stop all this petty bickering Among ourselves And recognize that the enemy don't give a damn Whether you're Sunni, Ahmadiyya Belalian or follower of Elijah Muhammad a Baptist, Shiite a holy roller church of God in Christ under Christ, over Christ through Christ he don't care what you are if you black you a nigger you my enemy that's it it's very simple cut and dry for them that's right First term examination What did Elijah Muhammad teach us? He labored 44 years to teach us the reality of God He labored 44 years to teach you black men That the Caucasian is not a devil But the devil It's going to be all right. I was real proud when I read that Imam Khomeini called America the great Satan. He's calling America Satan from 10,000 miles away. But little Elijah Muhammad said she was Satan right in her midst for 44 years with no army. She is a Satan. She has deceived the entire world. Oh yeah. She leads the world in filth and degeneracy. Everything that your Bible tells you not to do, white folk tell you, go ahead and do it. It's alright. She's the leader in drunkenness. The Quran forbids it. She's the leader in alcoholism. The Quran forbids it. She's the leader in gambling. The Quran forbids it. She's the leader in usury. The Quran forbids it. She's the leader of polytheism. The Quran forbids it. She's the leader of disbelief in the prophets and their law and their teaching. The Quran forbids this. She's the leader in drunkenness, in fornication, in adultery, in lesbianism, in homosexuality. Name any filth you want to name, she leads in it. Is that right? They make laws to protect faggots. Faggots got rights you don have none gay folk taking over city Hall you can take over the corner where you live Oh boy They got laws to protect dogs laws to protect ducks laws to protect geese and pheasant but it's open season on niggers all the time. You in trouble, brother. White man knock over a dog, he jump out the car. Oh, brother. Just kill the dog. He goes home sitting in his plate. His wife asked him, darling what's wrong honey I I ran over dog tonight and I just don't feel so well she said let your head on my chest darling it's gonna be alright that same jump blows a black man away for nothing shoot him 22 times shoot a black woman down like a dog, go home and tell the children, yeah, just got me a nigger tonight. They got more feeling for animals than they have for your life as a human being. How the hell can anybody lead you to join America, pledge allegiance to her flag, fighting her wars? You need to be examined How well did you learn the lesson? Did you believe that the white man is a devil? No, you didn't believe it Oh no, not you Oh no, I know some good ones I know some good ones, honey I worked for old Goodwin in Berkeley, honey She gave me some shoes last week Nobody would give me a pair of shoes like this unless they love me. See how foolish you are? Over an old pair of shoes, over an old flower, over an old overcoat. You're willing to say everybody good. You don't know what the hell good is because you have been made no good yourself. Honorable Elijah Muhammad give you a flag. the sun, moon, and star. He says the greatest flag in the universe. Allah, God, put it up, sun, moon, and star. When he gives you that flag, he's telling you, you are an owner and a sharer in the universe because by nature you are the descendants of the creator. His nature is your nature. and you are his own people so he gives you a flag to represent you by. The Arnold B. Elijah Muhammad taught us the judgment of America. Didn't he? He taught us that there was a plane over America. 40 miles up. That's a half a mile by a half a mile. and on that plane there are 1,500 little bombing planes made like a wheel. They call them flying saucers. He taught us this for 44 years. He told us what the white man was going to see on the moon before the white man got to the moon. And he only went to the third grade of school. He told us how the white man got here, when he got here, and what was the idea in bringing him here. Well, after 40 years, we needed an examination. So the Honorable Elijah Muhammad takes lead. Where is this in Scripture? When Moses had completed 40 years, he went away to the mountain. The people didn't believe that Moses was coming back. That's when Korah, the great rebel of Moses, rose up and turned the people back into false worship. Back against the teaching of Moses. They were examined and they failed. Is that right? Come on now. Jesus. Fasted in the wilderness 40 days He goes to his so death The minute his back is turned the disciples cut up act a fool because a betrayer came up right out of their ranks David had a son named Absalom. Everybody say, nobody should know a father better than his own son. That's true in some cases. But there are some sons who don't love their own fathers. There are some sons in history that are jealous of their own father. Absalom was this way by David. Absalom used to meet the king's servants and kiss them on their hands. He wanted to show the king's servants that he was better for them than David the king. He exaggerated the evils in David's court and then made war on his own father. Went up before all Israel and laid with David's wives. concubine. Finally, David's men went to war with Absalom and David told his soldiers, do not harm my son. And one of them was so full of anger, he disobeyed David and killed David's son and David could be heard in the tent crying and moaning my son my son my son Noah also had a son that disbelieved in him and that son wouldn't come into the ark every time Noah said come in son the son said no I betake myself to the mountain for refuge. So when Noah pleaded to Allah for his son, begged to God to spare his son, the God spanked Noah because Noah was too tenderhearted on a hypocrite son in his own family. Look at what Allah said to Noah. This is a sign for us today. He said, look, Noah, I know best who is your son. He is the very embodiment of evil. And if you ask me about sparing his life one more time, I will drown you along with the other unjust. Now, what is Allah telling Noah? There's an enemy for you, man, right in your own house. This Holy Quran says that among your wives and your children there's an enemy for you so be aware of them. Jesus in the New Testament said they of a man's own household will be his worst enemies. Two will be laying in the bed and he'll take one and he'll leave one. And if you've got strength to fight an enemy on the outside, but don't have no courage to fight an enemy on the inside, then the internal enemy will destroy you. Because your worst enemy today is going to come right out of your own family, out of your own household, out of your own organization. Are you listening? Is it true? Is it true? You know darn well it's true. Jesus gives the signs of the end. He says wars, rumors of wars, nation rising against nation, kingdom against kingdom, earthquakes in diverse places, pestilence, famine. He said this is the beginning of sorrows. what else Jesus he said then brother is gonna rise up against brother and brother will deliver up brother to be scourged in the synagogues and in the temples what does it mean that we're living in a time now where we are gonna see betrayal in our ranks like we've never seen before brothers are gonna learn all they can about their own brother you think you're talking to your friend and you're talking to the damn enemy posing as your friend at your right hand, at your left hand, in front of you, behind you, in the bed with you. And then the enemy snatches him.

Look, we seen you selling drugs. And we can give you ten years. In fact, we can throw away the key. We got a lot we can hang on you. And you start flaking out, oh, please, boss. Don't put me in jail. I've been there once. I don't want to go no more. Well, you ain't going if you do what I tell you. But what you want me to do? I just want you to deliver up Farrakhan for me. I want you to deliver up Rashidim for me. I want you to deliver up this one, that one for me. Yeah, sister, I want you to play like you want to be a Muslim and go on in there. And look fine and foxy, because I hear he got a weakness for women. And I want you to lay around him and tantalize him. Find out his weakness. Lead him to the hotel. and we'll be in there with our cameras grinding. Try to get him in the most compromising positions. That's the day you're living in. This is the time you're living in. Brother and sister, this Quran says, In that day only your righteousness will sustain you. I don't look for my friends to be with me. I don't look for my brothers to protect me. I put my trust in Allah, God, to protect my life. And if my own righteousness and the hand of Allah is not with me, there ain't a damn brother around me that can protect me. I'm not no fool, there ain't no gun that can protect me. Kennedy had a lot of guns around him. But when his time came, he was gone. Samosa had armed guards, but they blew his butt away recently. You either got to have your hand in the hand of God in order for you to get through this, or you will not get through it all. Now, what am I saying? I'm saying that right in the family of the Honorable Elijah Muhammad, there were those who did not agree with that man. They took all the good that he had to offer. All the treasure of wealth that we gave to him, he shared with his family. the wisdom that he taught us he shared it abundantly with his family you must remember brothers and sisters that the fight game was a game ruled by the mafia when Herbert Muhammad the son of Elijah Muhammad got into the fight game and began getting the ancillary rights to promote the fight on closed circuit TV. This is the first time black people ever got in on them big bucks. Do you know why Herbert Muhammad was not offed? Because he was the son of Elijah. And we the FOI, not no faggots, not no sissies, We come out the street, out the alley, out the pool room, out the ballroom, out the prison. We done killed, robbed, stolen, cheated, lied, and cleaned up. And we didn't clean up to play games. So the mafia knew it's tit for tat. You kill my dog, I kill your mother, your father, your cat, and your rat. Huh? So the word went out. Leave him alone. And he made more money than any man in history. Not because of him, but because of his father. When you're ungrateful, God has to manifest that. So the test was given. How did we fail? Well, we were told, take the flag, then, and put the Quran up. Now the Quran is not greater than that. I'm going to talk to you a minute. I know the Quran is a mighty book, but this Quran is not equal to the universe. This Quran says and I quoting now if all the seeds with seven more seeds added to it were as ink and all the trees were as pins you could never exhaust the words of Allah This Quran says, everything that Allah created is a word. There are some creatures, the Quran says, that you know and there are some that you don't know. This book does not contain all of the universe, but everything in the universe is contained in this book. meaning the spiritual wisdom of pertaining to the universe is in the book, but the universe is greater than the book. You can burn the book, but you can't destroy the universe. And as long as the universe is alive, we can make the book again and again and again and again and again and again and again. But when you destroy this, you destroy this. Now when somebody takes the sun, moon and star down and give you a book, they've made a trade. And the trader has gotten you to give up something of value, not to take something of no value, to take lesser value. see that now he tested you don't realize mama said this Caucasian is a devil Wallace Muhammad said no no he's your breath open the temple let him in how did we react did we sit down beside him Hi, As-Salaamu Alaikum, brother. So glad you could come in. We've been looking for you. Some of the Muslims all of a sudden became apologists for what Elijah Muhammad taught. Yeah, we was deceived. We was told you was evil. We're so glad you're coming in to be our brother. The messenger told us there were white Muslims all over the world And that we should respect them For they are trying to respect us But he didn't tell us that this American Caucasian devil Should be trusted as no brother He didn't tell you that So the test was I'm going to tell you let them in And sit beside them and call them your brother If you do, you fail the test I give you a real God Muhammad talking my tester is going to give you a spook again now if you give up the reality for the spook you fail your test I'm going to tell you that you should eat one meal a day and fast at least three days out of a month and certain foods you should never eat You should never eat no shrimp, no scavenger foods out of the sea. For you are a holy people and you deserve to eat the best that God has created. But then the tester comes in and says, you eat. You can eat scallops. You can eat shrimp. You can eat lobster. Just look at the daggone thing. You can eat crab. And now look at you. You ugly as hell. You used to be a beautiful sister. A beautiful brother then got fat. Sloppy. Your face lost. It shined. Yes. When the imam came into office, he talked about those beard-wearing devils hiding the civilized man. Didn't he say it? In his first speech, go back and read it, hiding the image of a civilized man behind hell. You used to be clean. Now you're growing hair everywhere. Won't bathe anymore. Just stink. The Muslims used to be clean, clean, clean. Now you are not. You've been tested. We want to know who the liars are and who are the truth. And I'm telling you, brother and sister, if you look at black people in this country, many of them have gone right on back to white folks now. Following the example of crazy Muslims Muslims would go to Christian preachers and tell them don hire no white girl get a job to a black woman And now some of the Muslims trying to hire white people while all these black people are out here unemployed. What happened to you, brother and sister? You went under a test, and that test showed that the teachings of the messenger was really not rooted in you. Now what should be done? I will conclude. I have a plainly, I can't go too much longer. I will conclude by saying this. Have you noticed in the Genesis of the Bible, that God was alone and then he made Adam. And then Adam was alone and he made Eve. And then God gave Adam and Eve instructions and then left. Then Adam was absent from Eve. And in the absence of Adam, Eve met a serpent. And a serpent started talking some stuff to Eve. And Eve went and disobeyed the divine order of God and fell. And then caused Adam to fall. And then they heard God walking in the garden. And all of them started running to get some leaves and get it together. Everybody alright? Adam had two children, Cain and Abel, right? You think that's all back there? No. Bear with me for this five minutes. Anytime you see the word Genesis, you're seeing something that is in its beginning stage and anything that's in its genesis or beginning is by nature weak and therefore must be very wise in its maneuvering. The scripture says the serpent was more subtle than any beast of the field. It didn't move like it did in Revelation. Look at Genesis. The serpent comes in crawling. In Revelation, it goes out like a beast. Now, what is the difference between Genesis and Revelation? The thing has had time to grow and get strong. But everything in its infancy must be subtle, must be skilled. All right. This is battle plan strategy, if you understand. Now look, Adam here, as the Honorable Elijah Muhammad teaches us, represents a people who are made, who are a new people on our planet. Let us make man in our image after our likeness. Let us, look at that word us make man not create but make him we're not gonna create an essence the created essence is already there we just gonna fashion it differently and when we fashion it is going to be in our image and our likeness that's heavy scripture because if I take a picture of you that's your image that's not you but when When I see your son, that's not your image, that's your essence, that is you. Now there's a difference between an image and a likeness. V. Elijah Muhammad says it has reference to the Caucasian race, a new people coming up on our planet. And you know white folks are new. Everywhere they went they had to discover things like all children. Oh, look what I found. I found America. He's just a little baby. But look, the baby was given power and dominion over the fowl of the air, the fish of the sea, and over every creeping thing that crawls. Have not white people exercised power and force over all things? But they were limited in their rule Is that right Now right in the making of the white race is also the making of a prophet and a community Oh, brothers and sisters, I just wish I had time to go into this with you. The Holy Quran talks about a prophet being fashioned from dust. Adam in the Bible was made from dust. You do not make man from dust. Dust is a symbolic term. What is dust? Dust is a particle of matter that is not serving any useful function. Therefore it is considered nothing because it's doing nothing And because it is in that state of nothingness We call it dust When you have dust on your furniture It ain't serving no useful purpose So you move to get rid of it And you notice how dust has no power to resist you When you move it, it moves you. And when you stop moving it, it settles back down. Oh, isn't that the way you are? You are like dust in America. You are a particle of matter that is doing nothing. Therefore, you are considered dust in the eyesight of the people. When they get ready for urban removal, it's dust removal. They just come in, move the blacks out. Move them out. And when they get finished moving you, wherever you, they leave you, you settle back down. Back down. You understand what I'm saying? All right. Now, wait, wait. We got to rush on. We got to rush on. Out of the dust, he says, he makes a man. What does that mean? Look, brothers and sisters, our condition is so wretched, so pitiful, so terrible. only God can help us out of this condition and the way he does it he takes from the dust and he fashions a man now the image of God the likeness of God is not a good word he fashions a messenger to reflect his essence and his spirit to the people now look where is this Eve coming from? Busting open the man's rib, pulling out a rib and fashioning a woman. Now you know that you ain't fashion from no ribs. Are you? You think you came here from some ribs now? No wonder you always out there getting you some ribs. No, no, no, that's not the way it is. Look at the rib. Does not the rib cage hold two most vital organs? The heart and the lung is encased in the rib. Every prophet that God makes is alone. Moses was alone. Jesus was alone. Noah was alone. Abraham, Lot was alone. All the prophets were alone, but their job was to make a community to help the prophet to meet the obligation of God. So they are called the community of the prophet. It's called the wife of the prophet or the help me of the prophet. Do you understand? Now look, the prophet loves God. See the lungs? When you breathe in, it's called inspiration. When you take your last breath, it's called expiration. Well, on the inspiration of God, the lungs, and from the heart, out of the love that the prophet has for truth and for God, he makes a community after the word of God. Do you see that? Now, the Honorable Elijah Muhammad was like a new Adam, a man made from the dust of black people. And out of his love for Almighty God Allah, out of the inspiration of the word, he fashioned a community called Muslims to help him meet the obligation of God. And that obligation was and is the resurrection of 30 million black people in America. That was our mission and our objective, and it still is.

Once the God had fashioned the prophet, he leaves the God. After Master Farad Muhammad gave us the Honorable Elijah Muhammad, he leaves. The Honorable Elijah Muhammad makes a community. If you notice in the Genesis, the serpent was never created. He was always right there. He's right there listening while the instructions are being given. He's listening. And the moment, listen now, the moment Adam leaves Eve alone, that's when the serpent crawls up and starts his stuff. Now look, history shows, you get it in your student enrollment, who is the original man? The original man is the Asiatic black man, the owner, the maker, the cream of the planet earth, god of the universe. then your second question is who is the colored man what is this to teach you that after the original you will always find a colored man coming in to color the truth to exaggerate to falsify to lie to deceive to create a stench Oh, Lord. After Adam moves away from Eve, here come the serpent making an interpretation. What did he say to you, baby? No, no, no, no. Now, wait a minute. I was listening. He told you not to eat that fruit? It was because he was keeping you a slave. See, he didn't want your eyes to come open because he knew that if your eyes came open, you would be just like his. You ain't gonna die if you eat that fruit. Go on, baby, eat that fruit. Eating apples don't mean eating from a tree. Eating apples, the Honorable Elijah Muhammad said, means eating the philosophy of someone you have been commanded to deny. Now look at it. The Honorable Elijah Muhammad made a community called Muslims. He leaves us. We are like a woman to him. In his absence, we feel alone. And it is then that a serpent-like, reptilian-type, more subtle than any beast of the field, in the New Testament it's written like this, and damnable heresies crept in among them unaware. Jesus makes a parable of us using this kind of language a man sold wheat in a field and while men slept an enemy crept in and sold tares in among the wheat can you see it? alright now listen oh brother this scripture is really really beautiful yes sir I see So, my time has come. Brothers and sisters, after the honorable Elijah Muhammad left us, it was then that his word began to be reinterpreting to us. And we were told, you Muslims can bear me with you. Oh yeah, you were in a straight jacket. He was just holding you there, kind of making a slave out of you. He didn't want you to get the real knowledge of this thing because he was keeping you, you know, like a slave in a straitjacket, teaching. See? Look, put all your books away. Take all your lessons, put them on the sidelines. Listen to me. You ain't gonna die if you eat the fruit. Your eyes gonna come over. Now what does that mean? Do you know that we as Muslims lived in the white man's world and our eyes were actually closed on his world of filth? I could walk by a disco, I could hear the music blaring. I'm not even moved to do this. because that don't move me. I could see the sister out there, this is the God truth, beckoning me to come in to the brothel house. I see the sister need some teaching. That's true. I mean we were so above that kind of thing The Muslims would sit around in our homes with coffee working on plans to build schools hospitals farms factories by airplanes We had no time to be boogieing, smoking, reefers, getting crazy. The sincere followers of the Honorable Elijah Muhammad were always busy in the upper room. Now when we were told, go on and eat the fruit, you ain't going to die, your eyes are going to come open. They were right and wrong. When we ate the philosophy of the new teacher, our eyes did come open and we died at the same time. Our eyes came open to the world that we had been commanded to deny and we died in the world of divine. So immediately the Muslims fell into the underworld. And we begin boogying now. Getting on down, partying. And the Muslims begin to say, well, hey, man, this is the real Islam. Man, yeah. I mean, this is the real Islam. Elijah didn't have it, man. He didn't have it. He ain't never taught us how to pray. Oh, brother and sister. One of these days real soon, we're going to teach you the meaning of your prayer. And you will know why Elijah Muhammad taught you prayer, but not necessarily in the way of the Orthodox Muslim world. Do you know that prayer at dawn, prayer at noon, prayer when the sun is falling away from its zenith, prayer at sunset, prayer at night, all of these prayers have divine meanings that are bigger than the time that you pray. and there's a reason why there's only one prayer between dawn and the sort of prayer at noon and then when the sun starts going down your prayers get more and more until sunset there's a reason why if you get up in the night to say your two o'clock prayer with so many different rockers why you pray more at two o'clock in the morning than at any other time? All of this has meaning? What does this mean? What does this mean? What does this mean? What does prostration mean? What was it designed for? Who was it designed for? Is it your way of devotion? These are things I don't have time to go into tonight, but the Honorable Elijah Muhammad knew exactly what he was doing. Now, hallelujah, we fell, we ate the fruit, and we got out of the straight jacket, and we got loose, corrupt, crooked, crazy. We had good Muslim names. we could recite little Arabic, we could make our prayers like the Muslims in the East, but we had lost something very valuable, very, very valuable. Now, at the time of the return, you hear the footsteps walking in the garden. every one of you know something wrong and you just about know that you are out of your order out of your place and you messed up and now you know you in trouble yes you do man now I just tell you very frankly my function is to serve as a reminder to you all of honorable Elijah Muhammad and what he taught. I can't teach you into something new. I'm only to remind you of what you were taught that you have forgot to bring it back up in your mind that perhaps you may grab it again and save your life from the destruction of the white man's world that is now imminent upon you. The spider works at the darkest hour of the night. You very seldom see a spider spin its way. It spins around four, three or four in the morning. See white folks when they make them night raids they come to your house when they know you feel And that when the spider works In their web, the spider can't see. It feels. And when the insect is trying to get out of the web, it makes a shaking in the web and the spider immediately knows, I got something. That spider, I mean that insect, has three seconds to get out of that web. Three seconds to get out of that web. If it don't make it in three seconds, it's caught. And you know what the spider does? It runs immediately to that insect. Sticks, I don't know what the technical name is, a little stinger or whatnot, into the fly and then injects into the fly enzymes and these enzymes break down the form of the fly and then he uses that finger as a straw and he sucks up the vitals of that fly leaving just the shell of the fly hanging in the well. That's why I started with the spider. Because what has happened to you is that you have been caught in a web and if you didn't get out within three years, your form has been totally broken down. The enzymes or the teachings that were given to you that are contrary to the divine word and work of the Honorable Elijah Muhammad, their function was to break down your form. Break down your form. And most of the Muslims that submitted to this new direction, their form is totally broken down. And right now, they remain in the web, just a shell of what they were. They have now been sucked up into the spider and have now taken on the shape of the spider. Meaning what? That the mind of hatred that was in that son for his father has now been put into the majority of the followers. They don't love Elijah Muhammad no more. They don't want his way no more. They have become exactly as their teacher. And that teacher is to lead you step by step to the chastisement of the burning flame. And as the Holy Quran says, And when the matter is decided, the devil will say, I had no authority over you. I just called you and you obeyed me. so don't blame me blame yourself and I have heard Wallace say if you really love my father you would never follow me he has said it straight up if you really love my father you wouldn't follow me if you really were with my father you wouldn't walk behind me But you wasn't with my father from Jump Street. And I have only made manifest your lying hypocrisy because you didn't want right when my father taught you right. He gave you a righteous law and you was in the law but still hankering for the filth of the world. So Wallace, you can't jump on Wallace. You can't blame Wallace. You can't attack Wallace. Wallace Muhammad is doing a divine work of testing and separating the wheat from the tare. And those of you who have fallen into that trap, that's your trap. You have been shown up now as a brother or sister who don't want right, but was hiding in a righteous community. See? Hiding there all the time, wishing, man, I would love to smoke some dope. Man, I sure love that foxy sister. And when Wallace came, he said, okay, go ahead. You can get her. And I mean, you broke out. Some of the brothers and sisters, I mean we pulled off them uniforms. Some of the Muslim sisters all, I mean you ask them today where's the uniform, they can't find one. Four brothers took their books threw them away ripped off the patch of the sun moon and star off their uniform threw away their fares Now listen brother and sister I going to say this as I leave you You know, Wallace D. Muhammad is the son of I. Elijah Muhammad, physically. And as his son, I have a duty by him. What is that? That duty is that as I teach by God's help and remind the people of the Honorable Elijah Muhammad, I must not do it in a way that creates a madness in the people where the people want to do harm to the flesh or blood of the Honorable Elijah Muhammad. Because we will have to answer for any action that we take. You can't blame that man. If he showed up your weakness or my weakness, that's not his fault. That's our fault. He was only testing and examining us. And he has done his job. Now he is in the hands of Allah. Whatever Allah wants to do with him, leave him to Allah. Now you, if you realize you have fallen, you get yourself back on the right path. Clean up your life and get on back to your work. And if you desire to go contrary, then the way is open for you. Go quickly to your contrary way, but you only have a few days to raise hell, for the end is upon us all. Muhammad Ali was one of the clearest signs of divine chastisement coming not only to him, but to every hypocrite who rebels against the divine guidance of Allah. Muhammad Ali did not have to end his career in such a shameful and disgraceful way. That man ended his career in that manner because he chose disbelief rather than belief. He chose hypocrisy rather than straight out confession of righteous ideas and principles. He went against everything that he himself preached. Yes, he did. And that devil reminded him of it just before the fight. Ted Koppel asked him, Ali, why did Elijah Muhammad take your name away at one time? See, he's a reminder saying to Ali, hey man, remember? He said, didn't Elijah Muhammad tell you to stop fighting? This is Ted Koppel, oh wise Jewish devil. Brother and sister, they have taken a very great man and brought him to nothing. Putting him in foolish movies that disgrace his leadership ability. He playing some dumb Negro senator in Freedom Road. You remember the movie? shuffling and going on after that man has won the hearts of these babies and they say Ali my champ see white folks don't ever want you to have no strong black man to look at now Ali go take some full role in a movie playing a dumb senator uncle Tom jump he's supposed to be a wise leader and gets everybody killed and what they are subliminally suggesting to all black people don't you take this nigga for your leader he'll get you all killed I mean they are subliminally suggesting this Chris Christopherson is five foot ten inches the photography there showed Ali under Christopherson every subliminal message was putting white over black putting a man over him that he had said he was the greatest and they're bringing him down look at it brother and sister they offered him white women yes yes yes he's surrounded by white people now. And that's a shame to Brother Stump. As I mentioned yesterday, going overseas for Carter, going over to Russia, kissing Brezhnev, coming back taking pictures with that Billy Graham, talking about I want to be a

Great preacher like Billy Graham. Who the hell is Billy Graham? But another magician of Pharaoh. Making magic to dazzle the eyes of the foolish. The man is going out. So Allah put him in the ring to let his brother, a ham eater, a pig eater, put a whipping on him. The poor man came out there and we saw his mouth saying some filthy words on TV. You know, if you saw his mouth the way it was moving, you knew what he was saying to the brother. I ain't going to repeat it. It's one of them kind, you know. And when he danced out there, he couldn't get nothing off. He started that right and that boy come down. And Allah just allowed him to stay up there for ten hours. Look, he's lucky he didn't die in that dream. That man was set up, if a man ever was set up to die that night. And then the doctors get on TV talking about he had brain damage. He had a thyroid problem. He had all of this. And they ask him, what did you put him on there to fight for? See? because when you leave Allah, people leave you and they play games with you. They make you think they love you. They make you think that they want to be around you. But all they wanted to do was to suck that poor man blood Come on brothers and sisters Let get ourselves together I have to leave but I will, by Allah's help, be back. I'm happy. Now, even though there are many new brothers and sisters in the audience I know some of you may wonder why I chose tonight to take a subject like that but many of my Muslim brothers and sisters whether they're Bilalians or followers of Al-Bilaj Mohafed they have suffered much and the brothers and sisters really need to understand what has happened to them And that's why I take the time. Because the old Muslims that worked so hard to build the nation, if you never come back up to be yourself, I say to you that your work has not been and will never be in vain. that your sacrifices that you made to build this nation are in the hearts of the people out there and they will come up and do what you should now be doing. If you don't do it, they are going to do it. But they will do it because you followed the example of Elijah Muhammad and gave them a model to go by So whether you come up or stay down, I say I thank Allah for all my Muslim brothers and sisters who sacrificed a day, a year, five years, ten years, twenty years to help the cause of Islam. And I pray to Allah that he will be merciful to us who fell And that he will accept our repentance For I myself fell in the mud They say that confession is good for the soul I never want you to think that I'm a brother That throws off at my brother and sister to make myself look like I'm better than somebody else. I am your brother, but I fell. And I denied the Honorable Elijah Muhammad. For 30 long months, I was in pain and in misery and confused. And I was his number one minister. But all praise is due to Allah. He blessed me to get myself back together again, to stand up again for the Honorable Elijah Muhammad. Allah has been merciful to me. And I am a sign to you of his mercy to you also And if he can forgive me in the fall that I took after I knew what I knew then you should not feel that you have fallen down so low that you can't get back. Get up and try again. and I will hold your hand, you hold my hand. And where I'm weak, you strong, you help me. And where you're weak, I'm strong, I'll help you. But that's why God allowed me to fall because no unmerciful man could stand up and represent the messenger because a whole nation fell. So it took a fallen man to call a fallen people back to themselves. May Allah bless you. As I greet you and thank you. Asalaamu Alaikum. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.