In the name of Allah, the Beneficent, the Merciful, the one God to whom all praise is do, the Lord of the worlds, the one who was to come and indeed has come to seek and to save that which was lost. We can find no person or no persons fitting the description of the lost people, the lost sheep, more than the black man and woman of America and the Western Hemisphere, who have not only been lost from our native land and people for over 400 years, but have been lost from ourselves, lost from the power of our own being. I thank Almighty God for blessing us with his prophets and their scriptures. I'm grateful to Almighty God who has ever stood up anywhere on this continent, anywhere on this earth to speak out for justice on on behalf of the oppressed black nation. But indeed, I shall be eternally grateful to Almighty God for blessing the black man and woman of America with a divine leader, a divine teacher, and a divine guide in the personage of the most honorable Elijah Muhammad, the messenger of our love. I greet you, my beloved brothers and sisters, with the greeting words of peace in the Arabic language. As-salamu alaykum. For those who are members of the Hebrew-Israelite community, shalom alaykum. To those who are Christians, peace be unto you. to my beautiful African brothers and sisters, Habaragani. Dear brothers and sisters, it is really a great honor and privilege for us to have been invited to the second annual, I believe it is, State of the Race Conference. We are so joyous at being here and joyous to hear of the things that have been said by those who have participated in this State of the Race conference. A great deal of credit goes to Yemi Toure and the Pan-African Secretariat for their great work. A great deal of credit goes to many of you who have been in the struggle so long and are not tired of struggling for the liberation of black people. to my dear and respected mother, the mother of the struggle, one who's been in the struggle longer than anybody that I know and is still youthful in that struggle, the one, the only, the incomparable, the unique, the matchless, Queen Mother Moore. To that one and that only, if she is a mother in the struggle, I think we've got a great father in the struggle too. In that great brother whose book is ringing around America and the world A scholar a matchless historian a man who has dedicated his life to researching the history of our people, and no Caucasian publisher would publish his works. But to my dear and beloved elder and father, I want you to know that if we have to stand on the street corners and sell the destruction of black civilization, that is one book that every black man and woman should read. Dr. Chancellor Williams, Brothers and sisters, it is fitting and proper that we honor those who have given of their time and their lives, their health and their well-being to make life a little better for those of us who come behind them. There is no honor too great for Queen Mother Moore. There is no honor too great for Dr. Chancellor Williams. There is no honor too great for Dr. Francis Cress Welsing. Though she was not able to be with us, we thank Almighty God for her sister who read her moving speech. Let us give Dr. Frances Cress Welsing a well-deserved applause in her absence. To Brother Shaka and Brother Phillips and to everyone who participated in this historic event we owe you a debt of gratitude. You know brothers and sisters before we get into what we are going to say, one of the things that we must learn as a people is to give credit where credit is due. It takes nothing away from you to be grateful to those who struggle in your and my behalf. It adds to us every time we thank the Creator for giving us another soul like these souls whom we mention today. Unfortunately, the Honorable Marcus Garvey did not live to hear us trumpet honor and praise to him for his great work among us. Unfortunately, noble Drew Ali didn't live to hear us say thank you to that giant. Neither did Denmark Vesey, Nat Turner, David Walker, Sojourner Truth, Harriet Tubman, Booker T. Washington, Frederick Douglass, Carter G. Woodson, and that great historian from the Caribbean. Ah, his name escapes me at this moment. Eric Blyden. Yes. We didn't get here to 1978, to this conference, on our own steam. There were many men and women who are dead and gone now who helped us to arrive to this moment. So if we can honor the prophets of Arabia and Israel and China and other countries we would be derelict in our duty if we didn't honor those that God has produced from our own lawns. Martin Luther King, Adam Clayton Powell, Malcolm X, Paul Robeson, these men paid a price. Imari Obadele of the Republic of New Africa Imamo Baraka Whether you agree with brother or not, he paid a price Our brother down in Southern California Dr. Karenga They paid a price, brother James Foreman, Stokely Carmichael, H. Rap Brown They paid a price, brothers and sisters And we who are alive today Should always remember them And when we see them We must show them honor and respect If they've ceased in the struggle Remember them when they did struggle And certainly last but not least, I cannot come before you and not pay tribute to the man that taught me what I know and gave me a bone to stand up and say what he taught me. I cannot deny him the honor that he is due though the world would like to bury him and not recognize his accomplishment and what he really means to the advancement of black people. I cannot bury the Honorable Elijah Muhammad. I must lift him up. Seated to my left is Prince Asiel Ben Israel of the Hebrew Israelite Nation, headquartered in Jerusalem under the leadership of Brother Ben-Ami. You say, well look, Brother, I didn't know that you came out here to call the roll. Brothers and sisters, the state of the race is pitiful because we have been fragmented because we believe in our factions and each of us glorifying our little part instead of broadening our view to see that all have made a contribution So anyone that I left out, forgive me, because in my heart I will honor, love, and respect any black man, any black woman who raises the level of consciousness and increases the the betterment of the black man's condition, one atom's weight. At least we are one step closer to our goal. The state of the race. The state of the race. State means a general condition. We don't have to dwell too much on that. because the general condition still persists. I like the title, State of the Race, because as the Honorable Elijah Muhammad taught us races have a beginning and races also have an ending The state of the race. The Honorable Elijah Muhammad said, and I agree with him, that the black man cannot be considered a race except in the condition that he is in. That condition had a beginning, that condition had an ending. In fact, we have come here this afternoon to confer, to reason together that we may put an end to the state of the race. Before I came here today, this morning, the clouds were very thick over Los Angeles. And the clouds always obscure the marvelous light of the sun. But just as the sun penetrated and burned away the clouds until its radiant beauty could be seen, so is the sunlight of truth beginning to pierce the dark clouds of confusion that hang in our minds. that causes us, as Frances Welsing said in her speech, to see darkly, seeing in part and prophesying in part because we only know in part. And since we see darkly and narrowly or in part, and we understand the mathematical axiom that the whole is equal to the sum of its parts. So if you have a part and that's what you see, and I have a part and that's what I see, and we only look at our part, then we will always see factions. We will always see infractions. But today we've got to expand our vision. We've got to expand our breast to be able to see more than our part. We must today be able to see the whole. You know, brother and sister, all disciplines have relativity. But the doctor may not see his relativity to the lawyer. The lawyer may not see his relativity to the garbage engineer. People may not see the relativity of academic discipline one to the other because they're so busy in the pursuit of their own discipline they don't realize that all disciplines have a common root. Even though the branches are many, the root is one. Hold on. As all disciplines have a common root, and until we can see and understand the root, we'll always be arguing over our branch. Therefore what we need now is a root knowledge of things, not just branch knowledge. We've got to dig down deep enough to uncover the root and in the root there is oneness and in the root there is unity. And from the root we can appreciate every branch coming from that root. As all disciplines have a common root, all religions have a common root. It's pitiful today to see a Muslim, a Christian, and a Hebrew or a Jew who are black arguing over, mine is better than yours. It's pitiful. Yours couldn't be so good if the problem still remains. So let's come on down out of the mountain of hypocrisy.

hypocrisy and false pride and recognize that if God is one and the universe is one and the law that governs the universe is one, how can you and I be many in the name of that one God fighting and killing each other over roots that we don't understand? Come on now. Today, we must strive for root knowledge, for in root knowledge, we eliminate the divisiveness of branch knowledge. Root knowledge allows us to see things in their true perspective, and root knowledge allows us to see the true relativity of things that appear to be diverse. We thought we were different when we came here. Some of us are nationalists. Some of us are Marxist-Leninists. Some of us are Pan-Africanists. Some of us are revolutionaries. Some of us are Muslims. Some of us are Christian. Some of us are Hebrew. Well, well, well. If you look at all of that, and you look at the divisiveness that is suggested and the diversity that is suggested in all of this, would I seem to be of unsound mind if I suggested your mind that really all of these things have a common root? And if we can just dig deep enough and stop being superficial students of knowledge, if we will dig deep enough we're gonna find a truth that will make us walk out of here this afternoon not lifting up labels that divide but lifting up principles that unite. Now there is a move among black people, learned black people, to throw away Islam, to throw away Christianity, to throw away Judaism, or to throw away religion in general. And that's natural because of what we have suffered by these so-called saviors who come in the name of religion. It's natural for us to be displeased with religion. You know in the Holy Quran it says about some of these Saviors, they say they are peacemakers but the Quran says they are the mischief makers but they perceive not. Can you imagine somebody taking God's word and using it for mischievous purposes can you imagine somebody taking the Bible and the Holy Quran and instead of using them for the divine purpose for which they were intended use them to create mischief and havoc in the earth it has been done brothers and sisters but to those who want to throw away the Bible, throw away the Holy Quran, throw away religion because of Arab abuse of Islam, white Christian abuse of the teachings of Jesus, and Jews abuse of the teachings of Moses, I respectfully suggest to you that not only have the abusers abused the Bible and abused the Holy Quran and abused religion, but they They have abused all disciplines. They have abused language. They have abused mathematics, chemistry, physics, science. Not only that, they have abused the earth, the water, the atmosphere. Now if you can't, wait a minute. Wait a minute. If you will not throw away the air because the air is corrupted. Throw away the earth because the earth has been abused. Throw away the water because the water has been corrupted. How can you throw away religion because an abuser has corrupted it? I want you to listen Well, it's a point, isn't it? Brothers and sisters, what we've got to do is take the things that are essential and separate from these things the abuse and the corruption and use it properly. You know, because the American government dropped the atomic bomb on Hiroshima and Nagasaki, that doesn't mean that we shouldn't study into the use of the atom. We just have to be wise. Root knowledge, coming back to the root, root knowledge of the human being eliminates the confusion of why these essentials to life have been abused. Root knowledge of the human being, I'm going to repeat that. Because as we have been taught by the Honorable Elijah Muhammad, nature is constant. And that's why history keeps repeating itself because unless you can alter the nature of a thing, you'll never alter the history of that thing. So if we dig deep enough in the white man's history, we find him doing the same thing over and over again, no matter at what time in history we find him, no matter where we find him in history, we find him doing the same thing. And if we dig deep enough into the black man's history, we'll find that that history will lead us to the profound understanding of the glorious nature of the black man. And that the nature of the black man and the nature of the white man are two different natures. But it takes a moral, spiritual, historical, and intellectual brave man to realize that fact. Most of us are intellectual cowards, spiritual cowards. Listen, brother and sister, spiritual cowards. It's easy to focus on the similarity of man because that's what the enemy likes to talk about. And if you talk about the similarities of the members of the human family, people will gravitate toward you. Now, that's right. He's nice. He's talking about the brotherhood of all men. But if you say, as the Quran says, the Quran says or teaches, we have created you into tribes and families that you may know one another. Well, hold on. If we've been created into tribes and families that we may know one another, if we were all the same, to know ourselves would be to know one another. But if we're not the same, then we have to intercourse with one another in order to know one another. And in no way in hell you can tell me that after living in the bosom of the white man, at the foot of the white man for 400 years, that we are blind to the knowledge of the man in whose hands we have been. No, brother and sister, and if you are such a coward that you will throw away the vast, valuable knowledge of your historical experience with them, then you will be doomed as your fathers to repeat the same old mistakes, and you will forever be a slave, and he will forever be the master. Thank you. All praise is due to Allah. Brothers and sisters, this root knowledge of the nature of the human being establishes the proper use of these essentials. If we have the knowledge of ourselves, the root knowledge of ourselves, it establishes the proper use of Koran, the proper use of the Bible, the proper use of our disciplines. But if we don't know ourselves, we will always be abusing and misusing and making mischief out of the disciplines or courses of knowledge that are open to us. The theme of this conference is self-reliance. Brother and sister, how can we fully rely on self if we don't have a full knowledge of self? how can we rely on a self that we don know anything about and are too lazy to dig deep enough into our history to find the nature and power of self It's just not enough to say I'm black and I'm proud. It's just not enough to wear dashikis and boobas or whatever we're gonna put on and dress externally in our historic garment but refuse to dress ourselves ...we put ourselves internally in the garment of our history. And how can we correct the state of the race unless we begin with the actual facts? We can't begin with assumptions. We have to begin with facts. And this is why the Honorable Elijah Muhammad, in my judgment, needs to be reassessed. We need to think that man's word through a little more carefully, a little less emotionally. And since he is gone from among us, it should make it easier to do since we always give men their due long after they're dead. But I will never be of those who say that the Honorable Elijah Muhammad is the late Honorable Elijah Muhammad or a dead Honorable Elijah Muhammad. Because if the Christians don't say the late Jesus and the Jews don't say the late Moses and the Muslims of the Arab world don't say the late Muhammad, How can Elijah Muhammad be the late Elijah Muhammad When his wisdom and his knowledge And the things that he taught us are right on time No brother Don't tell me I'm following a dead man You don't understand what a man is We cannot deny the flesh and the blood of a man But the flesh and the blood of a man is finite But the knowledge, the wisdom that God sends to us through a man if it's a living truth that lives beyond the grave, brother and sister. And that's why Jesus had nearly 700 million followers while he only had 30 or 40 to listen to him while he was alive. Prophet Muhammad had a billion Muslims following him, but he only had a few following him when he was alive. Because history has to look deep into the wisdom of these visionaries. you don't see a man fully of that kind of magnitude. It's vanity on our part to think that we see the magnitude yet of W.E.B. Du Bois. It's vanity on our part if we think we see the magnitude of Marcus Garvey. It is vanity on our part if we think we see the magnitude of those giants that have risen among us. No, brother and sister, their wisdom will be revealing itself to generations that are yet unborn. What white folks want us to do is discard our giants. Well, he's dead now. He's dead now. Leave that alone. That teaching that he said, well, it was good when he was here, but not now. But white folks don't do that. They have a library full of books written by dead folks. And it's the books of knowledge of those dead folks that sustain a living world. Black man and woman, if we don't see the value of our own history, the value of writing our own history, the value of digging into the lives and the words and the works of those who work for us. We'll never be respected as a people. It's one thing to uphold Mao Zedong. It's another thing to uphold Karl Marx. but until we learn to respect and honor and uphold and revere those that come from our own experience the world will never respect us and may I respectfully suggest to you that we have produced men in America greater than those overseas but your love for others and your hate for yourself blinds you to the value of what's right beneath your feet All praise is due to Allah The Honorable Elijah Muhammad gave us two simple questions that we had to answer before we could even be accepted into the nation of Islam And though many say, well, that's not valid today, I beg your pardon. Let's see its validity. He asked the question, who is the original man? Who is the original man? And the answer, the Asiatic black man. Stop right there. Why didn't he say the African black man? Why did he say the Asiatic black man? This means no disrespect of Africa, mind you. But he was going to roots. And the name of this whole earth before the white man tried to give it his names. The root word was Asia. And the only people on it were us. And therefore we took our name after our home. Our home is not a continent. Our home is the earth. All 196,940,000 square miles of it. But Africa, as it is called, has a very special place on this earth. And that's what we want to deal with today. Follow me now. The Honorable Elijah Muhammad. Everybody all right? We're just getting started, brothers and sisters. The Honorable Elijah Muhammad, by using the word original to describe man, he said that original means first, not something copied after something else, but something that is the master or the original from which things are copied. Listen good. He said that which is first is that which contains its own self, its own essence. Original. He said the original man is the cream of the planet. Why did you use cream, Mr. Muhammad? Because I don't care what you do to cream. Break it up if you want to. Shake it up if you want to. When everything settles down to cream, it's going to come to the top. I don't care. I don't care what you've done to the black man. I don't care how you crush the black man. I don't care how you shake him up and fragment the black man. This whole question is going to be settled in a few days. And when it is settled, the black man, the despised, the rejected, the unloved, the unwanted, there's no place for him to go but to the top. For he who has experienced the bottomless pits of hell is the only one qualified to ascend to the heights of heaven. Now, Honorable Elijah Muhammad says that the black man is the father of civilization. And by civilization, he means knowledge, wisdom, understanding, culture, refinement, the pursuit of happiness. That the black man fathered this into existence. Well, what do we learn history for? We don't learn history to say, yeah, we're the fathers of civilization, man. We gave everything to the world. What you doing now, brother? What are you giving to the world now, sister? History is shown to you so that you can do today what your fathers did yesterday. The Honorable Elijah Muhammad closed out that first little lesson saying that the original man is the God of the universe. Now let's stop there because that throws a lot of people out.

I said, man, now I think Elijah Muhammad was stretching that thing a little bit. Brother and sister, the same scripture that you read called Bible, and the same scripture that you read called Quran, that scripture verifies that man has the capacity to be the master over the physical laws that govern the universe and the laws that govern matter. Man is showing you every day that he can master these laws and master matter. Well, if we can start first with the mastery of self in which is called the microcosm and the universe is called the macrocosm, then if we can sit above this, then we also have the potential to sit above that. But it starts first with self. Hold on. Now here's a crucial thing he said. He asked the question, Who is the colored man? Now I know you thought you were colored. But he answers that question. The colored man is the Caucasian. Jakub's grafted devil. Skunk of the planet earth. Oh, that sounds horrible. To your sophisticated ears. But let's look deep into it. Let's not dismiss it as rhetoric or emotionalism. Let's look at it. Cheikh Antadioch, one of our very, very great scientists, historians, admits that there's a process by which the Caucasian became white. I think that same admission is in Dr. Williams' book. Schopenhauer, the white philosopher, said that there's no such thing as a white man, but every white man is a bleached out or faded black man. But he don't want to say the process by which the bleaching or the fading out took place. We say, oh, that's all hogwash. Man is mine. All men are the same. Hold it right there. Brother and sister, you're looking darkly, seeing a part truth. Man is not mind alone. For if you only make man mind, then you are depriving mind of the very genetic powers that shape, mold, and direct mind. You are denying the part that environment plays on heredity by saying that man is just mine. No, he's more than that. And the scientists of the white man bear witness that in the study of genetics, the very genetic makeup of a thing tells you the characteristics that that thing will have. It tells you the bend of that thing so that no matter what you put in it to develop a mind, the character and the direction of it is largely shaped by its genetic makeup. Well, I'm not quite convinced, Mr. Farrakhan. brother feed water to the lion feed water to the ant feed water to the snake the water is common to all but all use the water according to their own natural makeup is that true? feed knowledge to the black man feed knowledge to other than the black man, they all will use that knowledge, but they use it according to their own nature. Now we're gonna prove this. The Holy Quran in it is written listen carefully I am going to place a ruler in the earth and Allah said all the scientists or the angels said what will you place in it except that which will create mischief and cause the shedding of blood and Allah said I know what you know not. Now I'm going to take a minute to go after that. God talking. I'm going to place, listen to this now, place. He don't have no natural home but I'm going to place a ruler in the earth. And the angel said but what are you going to place in it except something that's going to create mischief and cause the shedding of blood. Allah says, I know what you know not, meaning that even though he'll create mischief and cause the shedding of blood, all negative things ultimately serve and lead to a positive end. I know it's going to be negative, but if you keep on walking with that negative thing long enough, that negative thing is going to lead you to a positive conclusion. All right. Now that's the Holy Quran. I just want to show you the value of the Quran and the Bible and how they don't knock science that all true religion, if it's not in accord with scientific principle, we don't need it. Here's the Bible. The Bible says God placed Adam in the earth. Is that right? But there were people already here when Adam came on the scene. For there was a collective pronoun used in the making of Adam. Let us make man in our image and after our own likeness. Now here is God talking about making a man. So the Bible is making a clear delineation between God and man. And I'm going to show you something in a minute if you're patient with me. Let us make man. What you going to do with him? Place him in the garden. What is the instructions that you're giving Adam? Adam, I want you to multiply, replenish the earth, and subdue it. Wait a minute. Adam I'm going to say it again multiply why? because you knew and you got to multiply if you want more of you to be around but that's not all you're not only supposed to multiply replenish meaning repopulate the earth and in order for Adam to repopulate that means somebody's going to get pushed out while Adam replenishes the earth alright that's the Bible and we just read the Quran. Somebody going to make some mischief. Let's go after this thing now. Now it's a very key thing to understand according to Dr. Chancellor Williams' book and according to Sheikh Antadiah and our own black historians why the black man got pushed out of Egypt. Are you all right? Listen good now. Not only did he get pushed out of Egypt, he got pushed out of what you call Saudi Arabia. The modern maps of what is called Africa cut off Saudi Arabia. That's wrong. That Arabian Peninsula is a part of Africa. It is called Saudi Arabia. Saudi in Arabic comes from an Arabic root Aswad. and Aswad means black. Black Arabiya. And the original Arab don't look nothing like the Arabs that lived there even as the original Egyptians don't look nothing like the Egyptians that live there now. Hold on, I want you to follow me good. All praise is due to Allah. I'm going to place a ruler in the earth. I'm going to place him. I'm going to put him. I'm going to sit him down. but he's not going to be able to settle there. Not permanently. Something is going to come along later to unsettle him and remove him But if he going to rule he got to rule from the choice spot he got to rule from the natural throne of power if he going to rule you can't have him ruling outside of the house of power outside of the seat of power you got to place him in the seat where the power is. I'm going to place a ruler. But what's going to happen to the ruler that's already there? Well, two things can't occupy the same space at the same time. So if a new man is coming to rule, the old ancient man is going to step back. How is he going to step back? Oh brother. The Bible and Holy Quran calls it sleep. Sleep. Dr. Chancellor Williams in his book said that the black man was pushed away from the centers of trade and commerce. pushed away from intercourse because that area of the world is the crossroads of the world. And as you push him more into the interior and jungle and desert began to follow him he began to think more on survival than the higher things of life. And anytime you got people who are thinking about how they're going to get their next meal they can't plan for the liberation of people. you are planning only to get by the bill collector. Do you understand? Let's move on. I'm going to place, follow me now, I'm going to place a ruler in the earth. Where are you going to put him? Oh, brothers and sisters, this thing is so sweet. Where are you going to put him? Listen, listen, listen. If you take off the Arabian Peninsula from the map of Africa, you don't get a visual view of how important Africa is. Once you put Saudi Arabia onto the African map, when you look at it, you see that the map of Africa is almost an exact duplicate of the human heart. Hear me good now Why the heart? Because the Tigris, Euphrates River The Nile Delta All the way down or up as they call it All of that is the richest Most fertile piece of real estate on the earth That's the core, the hub, the heart of the world and if the ruler is going to rule and make his mischief we don't put him in a place where he could easily be pumped out we put him in the heart place him in the heart so if the heart is contaminated him good brother and sister if the heart is contaminated then every corpuscle of blood that flows through the heart will be contaminated by whatever disease is in the heart Therefore the whole earth will be poisoned if the heart of the earth is poisoned. So the new man had to be put now in the seat of power where Egypt is, where Sudan is, where Arabia is, where Israel is. He had to be there. How did he get there? Let's talk about it now. Oh, brother and sister. The Honorable Elijah Muhammad has taught us and it's time for us to research it. The white man is not a natural man to that part of the earth, neither Arab nor Jew. I mean transplant Arab or Jew. That's not their land. They're arguing over a question that only you and I can settle. But because you're deaf, dumb, and blind to the value of who you are and where you belong on the earth and the richness of your history, you let these pseudo-Arabs and Jews argue it out while the real man keeps quiet. All right now, brother and sister. Hold on. Bear with me, brother and sister. So now, the scriptures go on a little further. I'm talking in the Bible now. The Bible says and I better talk on the Honor of Elijah Muhammad first then make the Bible bear witness to him The Honorable Elijah Muhammad says listen that white folks after they were made or grafted out of the original man you might as well take it Dr. Francis Cress Welsing says in her writing that the white man fears the black man because of his genetic superiority. If you produce right now an albino, they will tell you that that is a genetic disease. Well, if you got a whole race of them, what does that tell you? Hold on. Hold on. If God created all of this natural thing and it's the melanin in the skin that allows us to take the sun in. not keep it out take it in and we are not harmed by the intake of the sun because we are the natural man in the light of the sun but here's a man with no melanin or very little melanin whose physical being reflects it it don't absorb it it reflects it listen good his physical nature is a key to understanding his spiritual nature. For he doesn't absorb divine truth. He reflects it. I'm coming back to something. Just bear with me. Please bear with me, brother and sister. The Honorable Elijah Muhammad says they came after they were made in their GNC. And that may sound like hogwash to you. But brother and sister, before you dismiss Elijah Muhammad, before you say that's just mythology because you can't go to your library and check it out. It's better for you to reserve judgment and then study, research as other researchers are doing and every researcher is coming up today bearing witness to the Honorable Elijah Muhammad not out of sorts with him. All right, let's go on. He said that the Caucasian was permitted in that area of the world that is called in scripture the Garden of Eden. Or between the Tigris and Euphrates River. And here's Adam. Let us make a man. We got to give him a place. Well if he going to rule, he got to rule from the heartland. From the core. So here he comes. Among us. He had to speak our language. in order to come among us. He knows Arabic and he knows Hebrew. He knew the language. He knew the customs. He learned the ways and he came among us. And the Honorable Elijah Muhammad said within six months he had turned the Holy Land upside down, telling lies, causing the original man to fight and kill one another. So they began to say, well, good God Almighty, When did we start having all this trouble? It was after that stranger came in here So then they rounded up all the strangers that they could find And chained them And drove them across the hot Arabian desert Into the hills and cavesides of Europe And this became the basis of all of your fraternal orders Crossing the burning sands Who crossed the burning sands? How did they cross the burning sands? Who sent them across the burning sands? For what reason did we send them across the burning sands? And now, brother and sister, you repeat the same ritual. You join the Masonics, you've got to cross the burning sands. You join Omega Psi Phi You gotta cross the burning sand You join Kappa Alpha Psi You gotta cross the burning sand You join the Elks You gotta cross some burning sand Why you gotta cross over sand? Because I'm gonna make you Go the same route That your fathers made me go You gotta cross the burning sand And right now All of your fraternities are nothing but mischief-making organizations. Listen to me good.

What the hell are you going to call yourself Alpha and I'm Omega? This is Omicron Pi, this is Epsilon Xi, this is Delta. Don't you know that those are only letters in the Greek alphabet? And don't you know that a letter is important, but it takes the combination of letters to make words and the combination of words to make sentences and the combination of sentences to make a paragraph to tell the story? So the mischief keeps us apart. So when I cross my burning sand, I get me a special handshake and a secret password. You cross your burning sand and you get a secret password and a special handshake. And we meet each other on the hot sands of white oppression and black ignorance and can't give each other a handshake because you don't belong to my fraternity or my sorority. Oh, brother, brother and sister, you Masonics, a Mason, I want to talk to you a minute, just a second. Because, brother and sister, if you learn the truth in the Masonic Lodge, why should you take an oath not to tell it? you know nobody keeps the truth but a devil? Jesus said, what man having a light will hide it under the bushel basket? Let your light so shine that men may glorify your father, huh? By seeing your good works. But you know the truth and hide it. And another black man struggling, looking for light, wandering in the darkness, you won't even give him your little matchstick and say, come on, brother I got a little light you keep your light and ask him have you crossed over yet have you have you ridden the donkey yet oh brother let's go on everybody's all right now the Honorable Elijah Muhammad said we drove out all all that we could find into the hills and cave sides of Europe. Do you know what this implies? That we couldn't find all of them and some of them stayed behind in the Holy Land and grew up under the law and teaching in the Holy Land. Now you've got the majority of whites in Europe and a few stragglers left in the Holy Land. Then what happened? Here's the Bible. Come on, Bible. In the book of Genesis, it said the sons of God saw the daughters of men that they were fair and took them to be wives. Stop. Stop now. Look at the delineation. The sons of God God saw the daughters of men. See, God don't put God and man on the same level. One is above the other. And God didn't wait till Jesus to have sons according to the Bible. His sons was in the beginning. And the sons of God like they are today see the daughters of men that they are fair. Fair means they are unalike and like complexion. well if the sons of men were fair the sons of God could not have been reason it out and just like you attracted to that white woman today your fathers made the same mistake back there 6,000 years ago all praise is due to Allah They began mixing in with the white woman. And in mixing in with the white woman, they produced a lighter child. But what you don't realize is, even though those lighter ones begin to be bred in and mixed in, brother, they began to push the original owner out. And in Dr. Chancellor Williams' book, he tells us that Egypt turned from black to brown to white. There he's repeating the whole process of grafting. Arabia turned from black to brown to white. And the world powers turned from black to brown to white. Now who is the white man He the colored man Why is he the colored man Elijah Colored means changed from its original state When you color something, you alter it. So if you take it and fall it down, it means to color means to exaggerate. To color means to falsify. To color means to lie. And a colored man is a liar from the very nature of him. Look at it now, brother and sister. Hold on. I want to show you the value of Elijah Muhammad that you never have seen before. But now that he's gone, we can reason with him more. A colored man. That mean anything that come in his hand, he changes it. He colored the Bible. He colored you. He colored everything that been in his hands. He never left it in its original state. He alters it. He changes it. He's the only man that ever was this man that saw things in terms of color. He's the only man that ever was who exalted his color over the original because he was few in number. So he made black a badge of shame and disgrace. Look at your Bible, you scholars of religion. Rebecca had two children. Here Rebecca was pregnant, and the book says that these children were fighting in the womb. Even before they come out, they was locking it. The scripture says, I'm talking the scripture now. Rebekah says, it says, Two manner of people shall be separated from thy bowels. Then you know it's not talking about a physical woman because a woman who has the sperm of a man does not bring two different kinds of human beings out of the same womb. Two manner of people. manner meaning that the characteristics are going to be totally different and when the eldest one was coming out the younger one snatched him back and run out and got his birth right or got the the ribbon tied on him am i lying brother this is the story of jacob and esau i'm coming up to hebrew and israel and muslim and christian i want to show you how much of a damn fool you are for upholding labels rather than the principles that uphold those labels. He said, uh-oh, uh-oh, this boy getting on somebody's case. If we're going to end the state that our race is in, I say again, we've got to explore the hidden corners. Oh, praise is due to Allah. Jacob, according to the very name Jacob, means a supplanter. Am I telling a lie, brother? Jacob means a supplanter. He supplanted Esau. All right, look. Scripture says, The elder is going to serve the younger, and the weaker shall rule the stronger. The elder is going to serve the younger. That is on two levels, maybe three or four, but I'm going to deal with two quickly. It's talking about the Arab and the Jew. I'm talking about Caucasians now. Yeah, white folks. So-called white folks. the honorable Elijah Muhammad says that that man that stayed in the Holy Land he's like the elder brother the one that was banished up into the caves is like a younger wild brother that one in the cave was taught something by Moses that the white Arab in the Middle East never got So when he came back out of the caves into the Holy Land, he tricked his brother and supplanted him. And right now, the Arabs and Jews are natural enemies of each other, though they are the same people. They the same people Oh Lord I know I stepping on your toe but I ain finished yet Brother, keep your toes in the right place. Because we're going to move now. Toward the highlight of this lecture by the help of Allah. Listen brothers and sisters. It also means to say that the Caucasian who is younger than the original man and is weaker than the original man have now become the master over a people who are ancient. And a weak man now rules a strong man. Is that right? Now, if he's going to be a ruler and he's colored, I'm not talking about colored now in the sense of skin change. I'm talking about colored now in the sense of genetic change. Follow me, please, please, please. Brother and sister, have you noticed that male and female, though we belong to each other, we don't see things the same? Why? There is a genetic difference in the male and the female that if both of us look at the same object, the female sees it one way, the male sees it another way. That's why God gives us two eyes that we should see with one vision. Follow this now, please. If male and female of the same basic genetic makeup see differently because their natures are different, does white folks or do white folks see the same as black people? Look, listen to me, please. I mean, we're not trying to be racist or nothing. We're just trying to deal with facts. If you look at white folk and they interpret a situation, and the way a black man interpreted it seems like it's two different situations. We both got eyes, we both looking at it, but we don't come back with the same version. Case in point, Andy Young, Andy Young says that there are political prisoners in America. White folks say, what? Think about this. When the music be playing You clapping on one beat They clapping on the opposite beat When the dance is dancing Your foot coming up, theirs coming down Your foot going up, theirs coming down Am I lying? It's a different people Well alright, I'm coming to something Queen Mother Moore said Your problem is you got a Negro mentality. Dr. Chancellor Williams said your problem is you got an Anglo-Saxon mentality. Same thing. But what we're saying is that if the colored man is going to be placed as a ruler, then we're going to follow his rule. and since his rule is colored, tainted, exaggerated, falsified, that means you're going to have a false view of everything if you follow the guidance of the colored man. All right, now I'm coming to something. Okay. Everybody all right. Give me a few more minutes now. Is everybody okay? All right, now we're going to go to this Bible, to this Holy Quran. Listen, why was there ever such a thing as prophets? And if the earth, as the scripture says, is without end, it says generations may come, generations may go, but the earth abides forever, why is there a beginning to prophets and an end to prophets? If the earth is constant, why aren't prophets constant? Oh brother, oh this is so sweet. Listen good now, listen. In scriptural language and scriptural science the prophets are referred to as moonlight and God is referred to as sunlight as the moon has no light of our own and borrows the light of the Sun to reflect it to the earth in the time of darkness this is why dr. Francis Cress Welsing said in her paper quoting from Corinthians, we see darkly. Why do you see darkly? Because you're not in the light of the sun. Why aren't you in the light of the sun? Because it's the time of the rule of the moon. And who represents the moon? The colored man and the prophets. Uh-oh. There's no prophet's light that will allow you to see exquisitely clear. All of the prophet's sayings were dark sayings. They were only to shed a minimum of light on the subject so that you could see a little bit to walk, but you would never walk without stumbling even under the light of a prophet. prophet. Oh, Lord. So if you want to run around here and call yourself a prophet, you really don't understand what you're calling yourself. Because in original man, God has already given you the name God, and now you want to demote yourself. Hold on. You just want to be something so bad. I understand. Now, why do we need a prophet? Are you ready? We need a prophet, not when something is right. Prophets come when something is wrong. Is that right? My brother sitting beside me is an original Hebrew Israelite. The name Hebrew is mentioned in this Bible for Abraham. Hebrew means one who crosses over. When did Abraham cross over? What did he cross over from? What was he converted from that he had to have a name change from Abram to Abraham? It all has wisdom to it, brother and sister. If you look at all the prophets of the Old Testament, after Abraham, or even before Abraham, you get Noah. Is that right? Then you get Abraham. Then you get Lot. And all of a sudden now, in the very heart of the earth, people are acting like sissies. Sodom and Gomorrah is in the Holy Land. You don't find faggots in the dark, so-called jungles of Africa. You can't go into Africa and find no men. You're not going into what you call primitive African society and find an old hard woman trying to be a man. Not in no African societies. You don't go into Africa and find men running behind women because their breast is out Hanging like some dog But all of a sudden in the Holy Land There was faggots in Sodom and Gomorrah Where did those faggots come from? How did they get there? If that's an aberration and an abomination And a departure from the original and the norm Then it didn't happen till the colored man got planted in the heart. Then evil got planted in the heart right in the holy land of Jerusalem. Right in Mecca. They have become the power. And from their view of religion, religion has taken on a racist, imperialist view. Listen good now. Christian imperialists Arab imperialists Jew imperialists in the name of God how did it get like that oh Lord Dr. Ben Johannen he's a very great black man I love him Thank you.

I admire him and I shall always honor and respect him because he had the courage as Dr. Chancellor Williams and others to show up the hypocrisy that is masqueraded in the name of religion. To rob people of their own culture and supplant their culture and give them an alien culture in the name of God. Listen good now. Everybody alright? You say, Brother Farrakhan, I thought you was a Muslim. I am. I am. But I'm a Hebrew too. I'm a Christian too. Uh-oh. I'm a Pan-Africanist too. I'm a nationalist too. How could you be all them things and a Muslim? Hush your mouth and listen. And you'll find out. All right. Now, Dr. Chancellor Williams and Ben Johanan and Dr. John Henry Clark, thank you, have all said that before Abraham, taught the oneness of God. In Africa, black people knew of the oneness of God. We didn't need no Jews or no Christians or no Muslims to bring us into the oneness of God. They were right. Now, Muslims, don't get angry. Or let your heart beat fast. Just slow it down and open up your ears to understand it. I'm coming to something. By God's help. If Islam is, as the Holy Quran says, the natural religion of man, when was its beginning? The Quran says that Islam is the nature of God. It has its beginning with God himself. Well, why did it have to wait till Prophet Muhammad, till it gave it a name? Islam. I'm working on something, I want you to just follow. Why do we have to teach men to pray? If Islam and God's religion is a natural way, you don't need a book to be natural. Birds don't need books to chirp. Bees don't need books to make honey. Spiders don't need books to spin a web. Why does man need a book to learn about what man is by nature? Because the book was not for you. The book was for the colored man. Are you listening? Why are you going to give the book to the colored man? Because the righteous ruler rules the earth with a righteous law. If the colored man is going to rule, he has to be taught the same nature that caused us to live in harmony with the laws of nature and creation. And we've been doing that without a name for billions and trillions of years right there on that so-called African continent. Listen good. But when a new man came who didn't have that nature in his very nature, it had to be taught to him line upon line, precept upon precept, because it wasn't in him. So every prophet came, had to teach him how to pray. Now this is the way you do it. You spread out your hands like this, and you turn your face toward this direction and you say, Father, what was the prayer of our fathers in Africa? Did they have a ritualized form? They didn't need it because prayer was their whole lifestyle, was the worship of the true God. Listen good Oh brother and sister please hear me Please hear me What we had to do was go into our nature and get the principles of religion out of our own nature and divide those principles and give the principles to the new man who had come to rule. Give him prayer. Teach him how to be charitable because he's very niggardly. You don't have to teach black folk to share nothing. You share everything you got. You've given away to earth, Mr. Charity. Am I lying? You don't have to teach black people to believe in a divine being. By nature, it's right in you to believe that there's a being higher than us. That's not something you got to learn. That's something that is instinctive. When a woman looks at her womb, filled with life, and in the ninth month, a new life comes out. And when that new life comes into the world from a sperm mixed with ova, and milk now is in her breast, all ready for that child. She knows that somebody is looking and taking care of the necessities. She carried it in fainting and pain with no concern for what was going on within. But a thing was being organized from a simple organism to a complex organism. Living off of her system yet forming an independent system. developing nine systems that would work together as one system at the right time. At the point of inspiration, when breath came in, a new being would be born. And when you look at life, you say, oh, a mighty creator did this. A wonderful creator did this. Our African fathers knew this wonderful creator. And in time, long ancient time, they called him Ahad in Arabic. Ahad, meaning the one. And this is why when Bilal in Saudi Arabia heard that a man had come saying, Kul huwe alaw ahad. God is one. That reminded him of what he had known all his life. And he went and sought Prophet Muhammad. Not because Prophet Muhammad was bringing a new religion to him, but Prophet Muhammad was reminding him of a religion that was already his from the root of civilization. Oh, brother, I know it's hard for you. Do I have a few more minutes? prophet Muhammad said peace be upon him he saw Bilal going into paradise before him brother if you only understood oh well we don't get into that now we'll go on my dear brothers and sisters there's so much I want to say there's so much that needs to be said but the time is so short to say it. But dear brothers, dear sisters, please understand that every prophet brought more and more of the original nature to the Caucasian. May I show you, by God's grace, a few more things about the Caucasian nature? If you notice, the symbol of medicine is two snakes entwined around and upright. Have you stopped to consider what it means? The Bible says, as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, so must the Son of Man be lifted up. Now, brother, if the white man were not given a strong law to live by, he would never have developed human form. When I say human form, I'm talking about mental human form. Don't you know when Moses had to go tell a man, thou shalt not steal? Thou shalt not commit adultery thou shall not covet thy neighbor house thy neighbor wife thy neighbor ox thy neighbor ass nor anything that is his Honor your mother and father. You're not talking to a people that are good. You're talking to a people that have a leaning toward these things. Moses told the people, listen to this. If you lay down with an animal, stone them to death. Here's a people that had a meaning to have sexual relationship with the lower lives. Faggots were to be stoned to death. This is the law of Moses. And if you travel in Israel, as I was invited by the Hebrew-Israelite community, and I just was in Israel about a month ago, everywhere I looked in Israel, I saw the weapon of death. Nothing but a lot of stones. Not that the land is just stones, but there are plenty of stones there. Now, brother and sister, the white man didn't become good because he wanted good. The messenger said he only followed Moses to get out of the caves. He really didn't want righteousness. But as long as somebody upheld the law and exacted that law on everyone that broke the law, white folks may have fought to break it. But they would straighten up. I'm coming to something. Poor Jesus. Poor Jesus. After Moses had gone, a man named Nimrod broke the civilization of Moses, causing the people to live any kind of way they want. So when Jesus was born, coming with the New Testament, which is a testament of love, offering love to a beast, the beast just crucified. And do you know who the most successful prophet was with white folk? Prophet Muhammad. Why was Prophet Muhammad successful? because for the first time now God raised the prophet on the other side the others were Israelites now he gives a prophet to the Arab Muhammad comes up the messenger told us Muhammad was a white man and their scholars say he was a very fair skinned man that man brought the Quran and the sharia or the law and that law was exacted on everyone that broke it and right now in Saudi Arabia you can go there with thousands of dollars and you can put your money down on the sidewalk go and pray and come back and your money be right there brother a few years ago there was some Muslims who raped a few Muslim sisters over there brother you don't do that you just don't do those things man they cut them too and right after Jew my prayer on Friday brought them out and kneeled them down and a big black brother and I noticed that the guardian of the law ain't never them lightning is that black one boy's skin just glistening in the hot noonday sun one sweep of that scimitar and you see the head roll off and And the people shout out, Allahu Akbar, meaning God is the greatest. And when that head rolls, if you saw a woman that you wanted, I mean, there go your desire, right there. Gone, brother. Because you'd rather, you'd rather lose your desire than lose your head, is that right? But I noticed that the minute the Arabs Get out of that law And come westward They get exactly like the Caucasians Have you noticed it? Well that's telling you something I won't go any further Alright Now I think we can tie this up Brothers and sisters we have all been under or ruled and victimized by the colored view of the colored man Your perception of yourself is their perception Your perception of mathematics and physics and chemistry is their perception. Your and my perception of religion is their perception. Your and my view of the world is their view. You say, but I'm a Marxist. I don't care what you are. Karl Marx cannot lead you into the root of the system that he grafted his philosophy from. Once you understand that he's the colored man, once you follow the colored view, you come under their power. And this is what Africa is trying to escape. Africa wants socialism, but they don't want to come under Russian power or Chinese dominance. We want to be free and independent. All right, now we conclude. Brothers and sisters, every black organization and every black leader has been destroyed. But you know something? That destruction was necessary. Why was that destruction necessary? because we viewed ourselves, our leaders, and our organizations from a colored perspective. And therefore, our enemies used our weaknesses against us, and we made mischief with our diversity. I'm a Muslim. My leader is the Honorable Elijah Muhammad. Who is your leader? What group you have? Oh, man, he ain't saying nothing. See that arrogance? We didn't want to listen to each other. We didn't want to reason with each other. We were fighting each other, arguing with each other because of our childish, mischief-making, colored view of things. So the Caucasian busted up all the organizations, destroyed all the leaders, wiped out all the treasures. For what? They did it so that we could never rise again. But in God's plan, it was necessary so that at last we could grow out of a colored view and grow into our original mind which says, I need you. You need me. We need each other. So let us move together to solve the common problem. So my brothers and sisters, in conclusion, it's not an accident that J. Edgar Hoover worked to bust up all of our organizations. Don't you hold on to no view of any black leader that you've ever had or black organization until you understand how the United States government shaped your view of that organization. I have it in the FBI files that in 1969, J. Edgar Hoover sent a message to the Chicago Bureau of the FBI saying that Elijah Muhammad was about to die. And we need to be in control on the death of Elijah Muhammad. They had two plans. Plan number one was to try to alter the philosophy of the nation of Islam to one of purely religious orientation. To remove all racial teachings, all teachings of nationhood and dwell on self-improvement and the brotherhood of man. And I'm telling you, the FBI file says this. They said, and I'm quoting now, plan number two was that if they couldn't get a man that would go along with that plan in the seat of power, then the second plan is exploit the weaknesses of those who would want to sit in Elijah Muhammad's seat and promote factionalism on his death to destroy the whole organization. Now brother and sister, you religious people, if you're going to be in your house praying, fasting during the month of Ramadan, telling people, I don't smoke, I don't drink, I don't fornicate, I don't commit adultery, I live the law, I live the life, I'm a Muslim.

doing nothing to change the reality of the life of black people, then your religion and you are good for nothing. You Christian, you Christian, Christian, you that tell me you love the Lord, the Lord Jesus Christ, I'm empowered with the Holy Ghost. But the Holy Ghost don't make you able to see the need of your neighbor right next door, a black man, a black woman like yourself. Then you're a liar when you say you got the spirit of Jesus. For Jesus worked for the poor. Jesus worked to uplift and satisfy the needs of the needy. He was not a capitalist. No, he wasn't. He was not a milquetoast punkified fellow. He was a man that challenged the order of his day by himself with the power of God behind him. Moses was no sissy. He was a revolutionary. And he challenged the order of his day. Muhammad was not a sissy. He was a revolutionary. And if you're going to follow behind the prophets, don't you come up with no punkified way talking about, I'm with Jesus, I'm with Moses, I'm with Muhammad. No, you're with the devil. You're with the enemy of those men. Don't you know, brothers, who were followers of the honorable Elijah Muhammad, or once were followers of the honorable Elijah Muhammad, that though black people didn't subscribe to Islam because they felt that Islam had no connection with them. Brother and sister you need a book now because you've gotten a colored man's view of everything and now you've lost the way to yourself. So the same book that was prescribed for them is now a book that can help you find your way back to yourself. Listen good Brothers and sisters You Muslims Don't you see That we were like the salt of the earth But if the salt has lost its savory power It's good for nothing but to be trodden underfoot black people looked at muslims say i don't believe in their religion but i like their discipline i like their unity i like the way they stand up and they would tell their children child one day i'd like for you to be something like that after they got over they hang up on our being Muslim, then they begin to say, yeah. Well, baby, you know, I dig what y'all are doing. I'm just doing a few dirty things. I ain't ready yet. But as soon as I get my thing together, baby, I'm coming on in. Intellectuals used to love it that the Muslims were around because they would always go to the white man and say, well, look, if you don't do it for us, we go to the Muslims. So whitey would say, oh, yes, yes, yes, we'll do something. Now, brother and sister, what I'm saying to you is that the Socialist Party was set upon by the government and destroyed. The Communist Party was set upon by the government. But more importantly, the Black Panther Party. That's a great party, brother and sister. Some of the finest, strongest, listen to me, most fearless young men joined the Panther Party. I respectfully suggest to you that if you studied the history of the 60s, the Panther Party was organized by well-intentioned people, but the overriding factors of those big whites who contributed to it, they had another motive. And the motive was to draw into that party every militant violent prone young black across the country then vamp on them and wipe out all of our militants so that they would put fear into us so that we would never rise again Look now this Ku Klux Klan man David Duke and his people wrote a book called How to Kill Whitey and they put Muhammad X as the writer, but they the writer. And they openly stated that that book was designed and publicized to draw out everybody who wants to kill Whitey. And once you sign your name and address and say send the book to me, they get your name and address and they send your name and address to their people in your city. And that was to vamp on you before you got a chance to vamp on them. So when I heard that I said boy that's what they did with Mark Clark and Fred Hampton. They took our best and knocked them out. See they're not gonna tell you that Malcolm could never have been murdered without the complicity of the United States government. Yes there were Muslims angry enough to kill Malcolm that is the truth but they never could have done it unless the government opened the way the government pulled out the police the government pulled out all of the things that would safeguard his life Malcolm searched in every one of his meetings except that one and in that one meeting shotguns came in under the coat of men to kill him. They're not going to tell you that they worked night and day to split Malcolm from the Honorable Elijah Muhammad. They're not going to tell you their side. But brothers and sisters, we all got to dig into our files in the FBI archives. We got to get them and study them and share them with each other. Because unless you know what was, you're not prepared to handle what we're about to face in the 1980s. All right. Now the wrap-up. Now the wrap-up. What are some of the things we can do now? Dr. Chancellor Williams says, we are a people that talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, and don't do nothing. And he's right. The Bible says, I have piped to them all the day long and they have not danced. I have mourned to them and they have not lamented. And this is because you thought they heard, but if they really heard, they would have carried it into practice. So what I respectfully suggest is that since conditions have made it right for us to open our ears, because now that Elijah Muhammad is gone and we see what is in place of what he left, you begin to reason and say, well, he wasn't so bad after all. Many of you say, I wish the old man was here. Many of you say if the old man was here, we'd have somebody looking out for us. We don't have no voices out there. All of our leaders have capitulated to the white man. It's like unconditional surrender now. Nobody asking for nothing. Nobody asking but demanding anything. Just saying give us what you can. Give us a little affirmative action. We'll take it. Oh, brother and sister, Queen Mother Moore is right. She's been right for years. That reparations is due to black men in America. Don't you know if Germany can pay reparations to Jews for that jive time Holocaust? And over 100 million blacks were lost in the Middle Passage and our blood has soaked the soil of America so much so that the acorn of the Democratic Party and the acorn of the Republican Party, Abraham Lincoln and Thomas Jefferson, have sunk their roots deep down into a soil nurtured with our blood and have grown up a Democratic and a Republican tree with fruit hanging off of it And after that thing has waxed strong on our injustice now we got leaders trying to sell us on the Democratic Party or the Republican Party and that same old fruit that our fathers made a mistake of biting in the garden. Are you going to bite it again? Do you think that that watered-down Humphrey Hawkins bill is going to give you jobs? Don't you know black man whitey don't have nothing more for you to do? The underbrush have been cut, the tracks have been laid, the cities have been built. I don't need my niggers no more. So now, if I can't entice my nigger to join my Army, Navy, and Marine Corps, that's why they don't want no jobs, because they already got a job for you if you're dumb enough to take it. They want to put you in Germany because they know Germany is going to be a hot spot. They may want to send you into Africa to fight on the side of your enemy. An army full of black soldiers. Prisons full of black bodies. Nearly 400,000 black men languishing in prison. For what? Oh, brother and sister. Army full, a prison full, and the streets full of nodding, leaning, coke-sniffing brothers. Come by, well, man, you know what I mean? We do the best we can, you know what I mean? The ratio of women to men in some cities is 9 to 1 Where is our black woman going to find a black man? Where is our struggling black woman going to find a man that loves a man that cares a man that's concerned? The men now want to wear frilly clothes and curl their hair Put on high heel shoes Walk down the street with tight pants With your tool hanging out Cause that's where your brain is now I'm not being vulgar Your brain is in the head of your penis And you're running around With your brain in your hand Looking for somebody to give you pleasure. What a damn fool you have become. Don't you know? Don't you know that the scripture said, Behold, how good and how pleasant it is for brethren to dwell together in unity. There's the greatest pleasure on earth is to conceive an idea and to work and bring that idea into fruition and see the creative work of your hands. But if you deny that avenue of opportunity, then all you can do is look for sex. So you're a sex freak, a dope fiend, a religious jackass. This is the state of the race. You, you argue about the tribes in Africa, nothing but a bunch of tribes. You got your organization and I got mine. You got your fraternity and I got mine. You got your sorority and I got mine. We can't see the value of unified action. But as I learned in the sixth grade, that in order to make a fraction whole, it first has to be reduced to its lowest terms and then you find the least common denominator. I respectfully suggest to you that we have already been reduced to the lowest terms and now we've got to find the least common denominator and rebuild our house. A house divided against itself cannot stand. And a black man who hates his black woman. And a black woman who hates a black man. We can't make it this way. Oh black woman your burden has been heavy. You've been carrying your load and ours too. And I know you wonder when will it end But my dear sister if you don sacrifice just a little bit more and walk a little ways with us more you're going to lose the whole prize. The black man is the prize of the world. And because he don't understand you, the white woman comes whispering in his ears. She comes like Whispering Smith. Hello, Sam. How are you, Sam? Sam, I've never had the privilege of growing up with a Negro, I mean a colored person. I mean, Sam, I'm so confused. I don't know what to call you all these days. She sits down on your desk And she pulls up Her already too short dress And now you have spied heaven And the thoughts of liberation Soon vanish And the thoughts of revolution Soon go to the nearest motel Revolving over and over in a bed That's what he can see. And so finally Samson yields. And she blinds him again and clips his hair. And now he's mocked and scorned because he lost his strength. Oh, black man and poor pitiful black woman. Black woman, you've got to be to us like a wife and then like a mother. You've got to be both of them to us today. because we need mothering as much as we need wifing. And you understand, sister, that when you marry that man, you got your first child. You got to go into marriage with that understanding. Look, brother, hold on. I ain't downing you, brother. Wait a minute. I know you want to be a man. I'm not downing you. We're all in the same boat. I'm telling you that this brother couldn't stand in front of you today if it were not for my wife's love for the Honorable Elijah Muhammad. Not necessarily for me. She put up with my foolishness because of her love for the Honorable Elijah Muhammad. And she yielded to me. And she learned ways of bringing me around without deflating my little budding ego in manhood. And after a while, by her wise mothering and wifing to this little brother, I soon became something that she could fall in love with. And now she's in love with this man. She loved this man. Why does she love him? Because she helped to make him what he is and he knows it. I'm saying it publicly because I want every man to know that we can't make it today without our God and our woman by our side, brother. Listen. Listen. All praise is due to Allah. Brother, woman wants to honor you. Woman wants you to take your place. Sister, don't you join those old sick white liberation movements. Well, I feel I can do just as much as a man. Well, you can do a lot. But God gave you things that we can't do. and God gave us things that you can't do. We just got to face that fact. We don't argue with each other over our role. Well, I want this written in the marriage contract that you will do the dishes, and you will tend the babies, and you will... That's foolishness. Where there is true love among us, that man will go out in the ditch don't you think he'd like to stay home what drove him into the ditch I love you baby why are you going to the ditch because if I don't go baby I won't be able to secure you and the children so love puts him in the ditch and love brings him home with the money to take care of his family and the same love that he

...have for you that makes him serve you by going into the ditch, that same love you have for him that makes you say, well, I'm not going to give my husband no TV dinner, because I know that my husband's health and my health and my children's health is in my hands in this kitchen. I am a scientist I am a chemist and whatever my family need I know how to go to the earth and bring it into this kitchen and make my family well and that's why if we want a program of action now not a program of talk start first now with self say to self Look, if I want to end the state of the race, it don't end with my neighbor, it ends with me. I got to stop being a nigger. I got to stop being a fool. I got to stop chasing after power and authority and greed and lust to be over my brother. And I must recognize that all greatness comes through service. Not of self, but of others. Are you ready? I got to clean up. Clean up what? Let me tell you something. If you got a cigarette in your mouth, I know I can't trust you to secure me. Because you're not wise enough to secure yourself. You killing yourself with what you put in your mouth. And some of you do it willfully. You can't wait for me to finish so you can go get some drugs. Kill yourself. Well, if you're going to do that, you're an enemy to the black man's rise. And you perpetuate this state of the black race. End your smoking by developing your will, not by getting pills to do it. End our lust to go in our brother's house and get our brother's wife. or go in our sister's house and get our sister's husband. We got to end that. Don't we? We got to end those immoral things that makes us so unprincipled that we can't trust each other. But if we could grab a hold again to moral standards that are in keeping with our very nature, then trust would build among us. Love would build among us. The family would be strengthened. Yes, we need land. But more than land, we need knowledge. Because if you get land and don't have the knowledge of how to use that land, that's like somebody giving you a gun with no shells. Proof of it is the white man gave Liberia to us and didn't give us the knowledge of how to use it so he still got it. He's given freedom to Africans but they still don't have it because freedom is never given. It is always earned. So my brothers and sisters, oh there's a few points. Come on, brother. Come on. Brothers and sisters, we can't wait for white people to make jobs for us. We have to now begin to pool our resources to create jobs for ourselves. There's a $70.2 billion purchasing power among black people. And all of that money that comes in goes right out into the hands of our enemies. We have to develop the means and the method to keep that growing among ourselves to establish institutions that speak to our own needs and our own liberation. How can we do this? Every organization has money, some of them, but the church as an organization got more than all the rest. We're going to have to lean on the church, lean on black business people to begin to pool their monies to create jobs Do you know that the whole international arena is open to us if we would open up our eyes to our brothers and sisters in Africa, in the Caribbean and around the world, that trade and commerce can be developed between us and America and them around the world that would sustain us in times of trouble. Brothers and sisters, we need to strengthen the ties of brotherhood between the black man in America, the Caribbean and Africa. We need to develop what is called a Pan-African view. Yes, and our brothers and sisters in Europe and in the Isles of the Pacific and in South America, we need to recognize that all of us are one family and the problem of one brother is the problem of another. We have to recognize that the Spanish who conquered black people and the French who conquered black people in the Caribbean have put into black people their own historical hatreds of each other because the Spanish and the French couldn't get along. So now black people who speak Spanish and black people who speak French can't get along and as the English couldn't get along with the Spanish not a French so the English speaking Caribbean is against the French speaking in Spanish speaking Caribbean we have to break down all that old tribalism we can do it we've got to recognize our rendezvous with destiny in connection with the rise of our people. We have been blessed as Moses was to grow up in Pharaoh's house. We know every branch of his technology but now we need the unity of the whole to apply that technology to lift our people up in America and then use it to lift our people up all over the world. This can be done and is being done now. So brothers and sisters I leave you. Sorry that time just ran out but I will close with something that Dr. Frances Welsing used in her speech. Though I speak with the tongue of angels, if I have not love or charity, my voice is as the sound of brass and a tinkling cymbal. No matter what we say and what we do, if it doesn't boil down to love for one another, then we have nothing, brothers and sisters. I agree with Martin Luther King that we need to love, but not love the Caucasian. Bring that love home to yourself. And if you could spend all this time forgiving them for what they did, can't we spend a little time forgiving each other over our stumbling and ignorance with each other? If you and I could spend time and suffer to integrate with a colored man and get our heads beat, sent to jail, how much time should we spend integrating with each other? Yes, I'm a Muslim. Muslim means one who submits to do the will of God. Muslim means a righteous person. All right, that's what I want to be. Because we'll never have brotherhood unless we do right by each other. Yes, I'm a Christian. Christian means one who has been crystallized into oneness with God through Christ and recognizes no division, but in Christ all become one. I am a Christian in the truest sense of the word because I want to exalt principle so that we can see each other as one. Yes, I am a Hebrew because to be a Hebrew means one who crossed over and I have crossed over from the view of a colored man and a mischief maker into the view of the original man and the originator Yes I a Jehovah witness because I a witness of what God can do to help a man over, to make him righteous, to raise him from a dead level and stand him up. I could never speak to wisdom that I have spoken this afternoon if I was not a witness of God. Yes, I'm a Baptist. How are you Baptist, brother? I've been baptized. Not in water. I took that in the shower this morning. But I have been baptized into knowledge, wisdom, and understanding that has made me a changed individual yes I'm a Methodist how are you a Methodist because I'm one that is given to the method that the prophets used to raise their people up from a dead level and stand them up on a living perpendicular and I've studied that method and I have applied that method this afternoon I'm a Methodist Yes, I'm a Catholic. How are you a Catholic? Because Catholic means universal. And what I've said to one, I've said to all. And even though I'm a Muslim, I fit in the Christian mode. I fit in the socialist mode. Oh, but you didn't say you was a socialist. Oh, yes, I am. But I'm not the Marxist kind. I'm not the Leninist kind. Though I studied them and I appreciate their scholarship, I recognize it's a grafted view. So I've returned to the original view of that thing. And the original view didn't come from Marx. The original view came from the creator of this wonderful, magnificent temple of the living God. I see a perfect socialism being practiced. I see food going into the mouth. I see food going to one place, the stomach I see the stomach oxidizing that food Turning it into liquid and sending the nutrients into the bloodstream And I see the bloodstream distributing the wealth of the body And I see each organ taking from the blood what it needs Every organ according to its needs working in harmony with the whole for the common good of the whole. This is the social organism that I understand. I understand that we can never be successful thinking like individuals, though I appreciate individual thinking. But individual thinking must be subordinated to collective good. And we must understand that no individual can help us today, but it's a collective mass action that has to be engendered. I understand. I understand that Almighty God, though some call him Jehovah, some call him Christ, some call him Allah, some call him the Son of Man, some call him Melchizedek and Shiloh and all these good names. But there are only names and attributes of one great being. So I'm not going to hold on to branches. I'm going on to the root. I'm not going to glory in my discipline. I'm going on to the root. I'm not going to exalt the Bible above the Holy Quran or the Holy Quran above the Bible. I'm going on to the root. I'm not going to say that Muslim is better than Christian. and Christian is better than Jew. I'm saying ain't none of them no good unless they carry out the principles that all of those banners are supported by. I'm saying that if we exalt principle and diminish banner, if you can see that the principle of love for one another is the pressing principle and the pressing problem, then I say exalt the principle and push the banner off to the side and then I be able to see you and you be able to see me And you won say there goes that Maslow There goes that socialist There goes that Baptist. You say, there goes my brother. Let me walk with my brother. So I say to you, I would like to ask Queen Mother Moore, the great mother of the black struggle. I want her to come up and Dr. Chancellor Williams. Brother Phillips, Brother Shaka, please come up. There's my mother. Where's Dr. William? He coming? I want Yemei Ture. That's right. Keep applauding him, brother and sister. Yemei! Yemei! Prince Asiel Ben Israel of the Hebrew Israelites. And Lawn Crest, where's the Lawn Crest? Please come up. Now what does this symbolize? This symbolizes that we are one family. And as we move into the 1980s, we're not going to let nothing pull us apart. My life, my death, all my prayers and my sacrifice is for God and the unity of the black man. Do you agree that we should never let anything pull us apart? Not labels. Oh, brethren, sisters. Stay together Walk together Live together black man This is our day Brothers and sisters, brothers and sisters, as you leave, Dr. Chancellor Williams' book is a monumental book that none of us should leave without. and we should tell all our friends to buy that book. If Dr. Francis Chris Welsing's book is here, you get that book. Queen Mother has poems outside and I don't think there's nobody who can write poems better than Queen Mother because she's lived it longer. Brother and sister, and outside, there are four publications of Honorable Elijah Muhammad. Fall of America. you gotta understand she's coming down and if we don't get out of the way she's gonna come down on us we gotta learn how to eat to live, we gotta get off of this meat and we gotta move toward that vegetarian style yes, that's what Donald Elijah Muhammad said we move toward it gradually but we gotta go there How to Eat to Live, Fall of America Seven Speeches and this is the one get those books on your way out And may God bless you and keep you until we see you again. Thank you. Thank you.