Please stand, brothers and sisters, silently in prayer. Surely I have turned myself to thee, O Allah, being upright to him who originated the heavens and the earth, and I am not of the polytheists. Surely my prayers, my sacrifice, my life and my death Are all for Allah, the Lord of the worlds No associate as he in this am I commanded And I am of those who submit O Allah, thou art the King There is no God but thou Thou art my Lord and I am thy servant I have been greatly unjust to myself And I confess my faults So grant me protection against all my faults For none grants protection against faults but thou And guide me to the best of morals For none guides to the best of morals but thou And turn away from me the evil and indecent morals For none can turn away from me the evil and indecent morals but Thou. O Allah, make Muhammad successful and make the true followers of Muhammad successful in the wilderness of North America. As Thou didst make Abraham and the followers of Abraham successful for surely Thou art praised and magnified. O Allah, bless Muhammad and bless the true followers of Muhammad in the wilderness of North America, as thou didst bless Abraham and the followers of Abraham, for surely thou art praised and magnified in our midst. Amen. You may be seated. Thank you. for going through the check procedure on the way in. Oftentimes you don't go to a public place and oftentimes you're not submitted to any kind of scrutiny in going to a public place. But those of us who have been taught by the Honorable Elijah Muhammad believe that our people are quite gullible. they take things on face value that's the spiritual side and of course on the physical side we carry all kinds of things on our person because we feel unprotected these things that we carry on our person sometimes offend almighty God and so we ask you to submit to a search to remove these offensive things if you have such from your person before entering a place where the word of God is being taught. And secondly, we are asking you to search the word and search us who teach the word so that you may not take from this day forward anything or anyone on face value that you may be deceived out of your salvation. so take this as a lesson and henceforth search all things and hold fast to that which is good thank you and in just a moment we shall begin This broadcast is coming to you live from the Final Call Administration Building at 734 West 79th Street. This is the sixth radio broadcast of the Respect for Life series that will run for 52 weeks The principal speaker is Minister Louis Farrakhan National Representative of the Honorable Elijah Muhammad Messenger of Allah Call a friend and ask them to tune in. If you would like to attend these weekly broadcasts, you are cordially invited. Also, if you are interested in supporting the radio ministry of Minister Louis Farrakhan, please send your contribution to the Final Call Radio Ministry, Box 20083, Chicago, Illinois 60620. Again, the address is the Final Call Administration Building, Box 20083, Chicago, Illinois 60620. If you would like a tape of today's lecture, or if you would like to subscribe to this series of broadcasts, or if you would like to become a subscriber to the Final Call newspaper, we will give you more information at the end of this program. And now, Minister Louis Farrakhan. In the name of Allah, the Beneficent, the Merciful, the one God to whom all praise is due, the Lord of the worlds, who came in the person of Master Farad Muhammad, to whom praise is due forever. And in the name of his true servant and last messenger, our beloved leader, teacher, and guide, the messenger of Allah, the most honorable Elijah Muhammad, I greet you, my beloved brothers and sisters here at the Final Call Administration Building and those of you who are listening on radio with the greeting words of peace in the Arabic language. Assalamu alaikum. Assalamu alaikum. Today, we would like to continue the series respect for life. The Honorable Elijah Muhammad has taught us and life bears him witness that life is a gift from God. Life is a gift from God. Those who receive the gift of life prove worthy of that gift by coming through tests and trials that make them fit to run the race of life. The Honorable Elijah Muhammad has shown us that before we come to birth out of the womb of our mothers we go through three great trials. Before we are formed as a child or an embryo and a fetus we are tested to see whether we are worthy to even begin the journey of life. I want you to consider my dear beloved brothers and sisters a verse from the Holy Quran which is the book of scripture of the Muslims and in the 76th chapter of the Holy Quran which is titled Al-Insan which translated means the man the man The definite article V is telling us that a man is going to be produced that will be an example for all men. The man. the 76th chapter of the Holy Quran is a chapter that gives us hints in a mathematical way of the kind of man that we should expect at the end of the present world the world of Caucasian rule since the diameter of the universe is 76 quintillion miles and we get that diameter by the diameter of the sunlight or the light of the sun And the light of the sun is the source of life light energy and warmth to all of the planets so the man that God will give to the world at the end of the rule of the darkness of this world of disbelief and wickedness is a man that is compared to the sun and as the sun gives life gives light and gives energy this man whom God would bring into the world or create like he created the sun will be a source of light for a people that walk in darkness. He will be a source of life for a people who are morally, mentally, socially, spiritually, politically and economically dead. He will represent warmth and he will take them out of a cold existence An existence where hatred dominates their lives rather than the warmth of love, where they will be cold toward one another in their expressions. But if they come into the light of his truth, that light will warm them up toward themselves and toward one another and life will be produced from that light. A life-giving son, S-U-N. But he's also called in the scriptures of the Bible the son, S-O-N, of God. Most Muslims do not like the Christian terminology of this great one being called the son of God. for in Islam it is considered an abominable assertion that Almighty God would have a son or a child from a woman in the same manner that we as men do. But if we look deeper into the words Son of God it does not mean that Almighty God the creator of the heavens and the earth actually fathered this man in sperm as the way ordinary men or great men come to life but it does mean that this man's mind being lit with the light of Almighty God being lit with the majesty of his truth would be fathered by God. Any man who comes to righteousness in a wicked world can claim God to be his father for God alone is the father of righteousness. God alone is the father of truth. God alone is the father of divine inspiration. So when we are moving from the light of God, when we are acting on the principles of his truth, when we have committed our lives to his righteousness, then the life that we live is not the life of our physical father, but the life that we live is the life of our spiritual father who is the Lord of the worlds. So each of us have an opportunity to become a son of God or a child of God if we will allow God and his wisdom to father in us new and spiritual life. This one that Almighty God would bring to the world as light and life to a world in darkness and death is called in the New Testament Jesus. He is called the Messiah. He is called the Christ. He is called the King of Kings, the Lord of Lords, and the God of Gods. But the interesting thing about this great one who would come at the end of the present world is that he is a man born of a woman who grows and develops as you grow and I grow as you develop and I develop But the difference between this man and us is that he is chosen before he comes into the world. The scriptures of the Bible says, I knew you before you were formed in the womb of your mother. I knew you and I called you forth and I ordained you to be a prophet to the world. This is beautiful if it is understood. Now we read from the Quran about this man. it reads in a section titled Attainment of Perfection in the name of Allah the Beneficent the Merciful surely there came over man a time when he was nothing that could be mentioned now let's stop and think about this for a moment this man who is going to be the example for men not only for his time but for all times is spoken of as a man that there came a time over him when he was nothing that could be mentioned Then the Quran teaches, surely we have created man from sperm mixed with ovum to try him. So we have made him hearing and seeing. now since our first state is sperm and sperm is nothing to speak of it is nothing to be considered we don't consider sperm in the family of human conversation to be decent conversation though this is the first state of all men it was the first state of Jesus the Christ it was the first state of Moses and Abraham and prophet Muhammad and all of the prophets of God it is your and my first state and it was something at that time that we would not speak of nevertheless out of that sperm mixed with ovum comes the man the great one the mighty one Isaiah says of him for unto us a child is born for unto us a son is given and the government shall be upon his shoulders and he shall be called notice he shall be called he's going to be born but as he matures as he grows he's going to be called wonderful counselor the mighty God the everlasting father the prince of peace He's a man born. He's going to grow up to be called a mighty God. He's a man. He's a child, but he's going to be a God. well that's interesting it says we created man from sperm mixed with ovum to try him life is a gift but when God gives you life he puts you into a trial this could be why it takes 30 days for the woman to know that she's expecting life it takes three times 30 days for her to know that the life is implanted well within the womb

And then it takes three times three months for the child to grow into its fullness to be ready to come forth under the number nine. Is that right? Very good. Now the Honorable Elijah Muhammad has taught us that while you and I were yet sperm, Almighty God tried us to see whether we were fit to live. notice beloved that the sperm is emitted into the vaginal tract which is a hostile environment for the life of the sperm God is teaching us from the time that we are nothing to speak of that a hostile environment will test whether or not you are fit to live. So now that you are in a hostile environment and now that you feel that all of the forces are arrayed against you and your life and the lives of your loved ones and you feel beset on all sides and you wonder, can you make it? Can you survive? I ask you to think with me back to the time when you were considered nothing, when you were sperm cast into a dark place. You were tried by the hostile environment of the tract, the female tract. Is that right? did you make it? you must have you are alive you are here you are listening to this broadcast you did indeed make it test number one you survived that hostile environment and that is to teach you beloved black people of America who want to give up hope because you don't have a job who want to give up hope because things seem overwhelmingly burdensome, if you survived the hostility of the vaginal tract, don't you think you can survive the hostility of this world? The second test was that when the sperm was emitted, hundreds of millions of sperm were emitted at the same time though the scholars and scientists of biology tell us that only one sperm can impregnate that egg to form the cell of life so the chances that you and I would come to birth were one in a hundred million, one in a billion. Those kind of odds would discourage any number player. Those kind of odds would discover any better on horses. Those kind of odds would discourage gambling. Nevertheless, the odds were one hundred million to one or one billion to one that you would make it on the earth. But you showed strength in the hostile environment. You competed with the other sperm who swam for the egg. And evidently you made it because you are here. Now the third trial, And that trial was to swim upstream like the salmon who swims upstream against the mighty current. Is that right? We had to buck or go against gravity. for the weight of gravity is pulling things downward, but the sperm had to swim up against gravity to get to the egg. That is to say that the force of gravity that keeps man inclined to the earth can be overcome by man who perseveres The Caucasian has shown the world that we can overcome gravity for he has overcome the gravitational pull of the earth to get out into weightless space. Is that right? That's only a sign of something bigger. man is imprisoned in the flesh of his own body. He is imprisoned because his brain follows the dictates of the urges of his flesh. And any brain that follows the dictates of the urges of the flesh is considered dead. and by being considered dead then we live for the pleasures of the flesh so when the flesh dies we in fact die. So the whole scheme of resurrection that is spoken of in the Bible and in the Quran is not, beloved brothers and sisters as the Honorable Elijah Muhammad teaches us a resurrection of the physical dead who have gone to the cemeteries. No, beloved, don't expect to see those dead come back again. But it is a transformation in your life when the light of God's wisdom will touch your brain and pull your thinking up so that instead of our being mastered by the dictates of the flesh, we become the masters of the flesh, then we are considered resurrected beings, we are considered living beings. All praise is due to Allah. Now, the black people of America and indeed the human family of the earth are mired down in materialism, mired down in the lusts of the flesh, mired down in that which is temporary and temporal. So, as we who are alive had to buck gravity to get here. We had to beat out competition to impregnate the egg with the life of the sperm. We had to master a hostile environment. I say to every one of you that are listening to this broadcast, don't you ever think that this environment is too tough for us to master. In fact, this environment will prove our worthiness for the gift of eternal life. Don't ever think that there's too many people running for the prize that you can't make it. The scripture says, many are called, but few are chosen. That is true. The scripture says the race is not to the swift, but to that one who can endure to the end. But if you endured before, can't you endure now? if you pulled up and fought against gravity and overcame gravity when you were nothing to speak of, when you were just a sperm, how come we can't pull up against the gravitational pull of our low desires? When we did it then, when we were considered nothing, why can't we do it now that we are grown men and women? But this also is hinting at something. This great man whom God would give to the world at the end of the time of the wicked would be a man that once upon a time was not even considered to be spoken of. now beloved brothers and sisters the Caucasian man dominates the earth with his wisdom his power his science and technology You may not like his rule or domination, but it is a fact that he does rule. and in his world he has made it so that you have to go by him in order to get anything of substance. We are not spending dollar bills with our picture on the dollar. He makes you fight for the dollar but he puts his great men on the dollar and not one of yours is, according to him, fit to be put on legal tender. He makes you go after his education. And then when you strive hard according to his rules and regulations, he may bless you with a BS degree. He may grant you an MA degree. He may give you a PhD degree. And then he sends you out into his world to market your skills in the marketplace of what he has produced. Of course we helped him to produce all that he has. But even though we helped him to produce it, he's yet the boss. Is that right? And he tells you and me rather quickly, if you don't like it, young man or young woman, you can leave. He's the boss. And he lets everyone know he's the boss. but did you know that the Caucasian once upon a time was nothing that we could speak of Job in the Bible teaches that he wasn't even fit to sit with the dogs of his flock think over that God brought him from a mighty long way didn't he the Caucasian's history is written beloved for you to read. He came up out of the hills and cavesides of Europe. Yes, sir. He will tell you this. He's not ashamed of his beginning. And why should we be? When we all began from sperm, you're not ashamed of sperm, are you? Since that is your first state, then the Caucasian, he may hide it. He don't like to talk about it. But he lived in the caves of Europe for 2,000 years. Walking on his all fours. Yes, sir. He even grew little tails. Their own scholars will tell you these things. Now, I don't say these things to make mockery. That is not the way of God. We don't make mockery of others' humble beginnings, for they could turn around and make mockery of us, for we are now in a spiritual condition that resembled their physical condition in the hills and cavesides of Europe. They didn't know how to cook their food. They didn't know how to bury their dead. They didn't know how to do the things that go for the making of civilization. They were totally inept, engrossed darkness the people. But Almighty God had mercy on them and gave them Moses. and Moses is to the Caucasian people as Jesus the Christ is to the entire world of man or will be to the entire world. Moses was the great emancipator, the great liberator of the Caucasian people. There in the library of Congress in Washington, among all of their great men that lined the walls there in that great library, Moses is number one. Many years ago, the statue of Moses used to be at the entrance and many intelligent whites would come and kiss the foot of Moses. Because were it not for Moses, the white man may still have been in the hills and cave sides of Europe. But Moses, is a man of God a man made from sperm mixed with ovum a man who in his own beginning was nothing that we could speak of but a man whose wisdom was fathered by the Almighty God came to the Caucasian people and shared with them the light of God the wisdom of God, the understanding of God. This third verse of this chapter says, We have truly shown man the way. He may be thankful or unthankful. Moses showed the Caucasian people the way. Now the Caucasian world were in a great trial. Because after Almighty God lifts you up from your stupor. Lifts you up from your days of ignorance. lifts you up from the time when you are nothing to speak of and by his wisdom and by his grace gives you eminence in the world that you may grow up as a tree and others may eat the fruit of your wisdom think it over and find a refuge under the branches of your technology you may be thankful or you may be unthankful And if you are unthankful and thereby ungrateful, then you have taken the way of disbelief even though you were nothing. And God made you something. You disbelieve in the God who gave you life. Who set up the trial in the womb. And who caused you to pass the test. and brought you out of the darkness of your mother's womb. Though he gave you eyes in the womb, he still didn't give you light. You were floating in a bag of waters. Think it over. That was your first existence immersed in a bag of waters. And God fashioned eyes in your head even though there's no light in the womb because he knew that you had to come out of darkness into the light. So he gave you eyes with which you could respond to the light and see the marvel of his handiwork. Even though in the womb you could not hear, he gave you ears. And even though you could not speak, he gave you a tongue and he gave you lips and he gave you your heart and he gave you your hands and your feet because you coming up from nothing are to be the born masters of his creation. This is a mighty God and a beneficent God. But the Quran continuously repeats which one of the bounties of your Lord will you deny? Will you use your eyes to see for evil? Will you use your ears to hear for evil? Will you use your tongue to speak slander and filth and mockery and blasphemy? Or will you use the limbs and the gifts of God to give him praise? I have given you two ways. I have pointed out the right way. You may be thankful or unthankful. And history tells us that man is ever ungrateful. History tells us that man is ever ungrateful. The Caucasian world has become a great world, a powerful world. America, the greatest of all of the nations of the earth. America has more abundance than any nation on the earth. She's blessed with great wheat fields and corn fields. She's blessed with tremendous grain production. She's blessed with the clouds that bring her rain. She's blessed with the seasons. You can travel the length and the breadth of America and every part of the world can be seen in the 3,000 by 2,000 miles called the United States of America. If you want to go into the desert, she has a desert for you. If you want to go into the tropics, she has the tropics for you. If you want to go up in the mountains, she has the mountains for you. Whatever you want, America has it. But has America been thankful or has America been unthankful to God? No, America has been ungrateful for her abundance.

For even though God has blessed America abundantly, America shows God how much she appreciates God by taking the people of God, the black man and woman of America, buying us and selling us on open market and depriving us of the right to know, keeping away from us knowledge for nearly 300 years selling us like chattel beating and murdering us at their will raping and lynching us at their will depriving us of our names and our language our culture, our religion and our God and even when they let us go free never gave us a way to express true freedom but hooked us into her. Now, a hundred years up from freedom, we have an existence as a free slave or as Jeremiah the prophet says, a home-born slave. How can you say, America, that you are grateful for what God has blessed you with by taking the very people of God and driving them to a state where today they are nothing to speak of. Now the black people in America are like that sperm, nothing to speak of. We don't consider the black man in the Council of Nations. When decisions are made affecting the destiny of the world, we don't consider you as having anything to say about it. You are underrepresented in every legislative body in America. Though the black man makes up 12 to 15 percent of the population, he is not 12 to 15 percent of the legislature, of the Congress. He doesn't have 12 to 15 percent of the judgeships in America. he's nothing to speak of they don't consider you as anything but nevertheless Allah says surely there came over man a time when he was nothing that could be mentioned and almighty God is saying to the world of man that out of this despised and rejected unloved and unwanted mass of black humanity that Almighty God is going to bring out of us the man. He's going to bring up out of us the man that all the prophets spoke of. The man that all the prophets wish that they could be a wayfarer just in his time to see the man. The man who is not man, but man plus God. The man who in his earthly form had a physical father who fathered him with sperm mixed with ovum. But a man whose wisdom and whose mind is fathered by the almighty God himself. The man, yet a man like the light called the sun. For if you will revolve around the man and take your light from the man, that man will give you light and life and energy and power. And you will begin to grow and master that which yesterday mastered you. Who is the man that we may know him? Who is the man that we may revolve around him? Who is the man that we may submit to him? For in submitting to him and in believing in him, we have taken the right course. For then we are saying thank you to Almighty God for giving a people that walked in darkness this marvelous light, this marvelous truth, this marvelous wisdom, this marvelous man. He's called in the scriptures the Son of Man. Think it over. Not the Son of Spirit. Though he produced of the Spirit he called the Son of Man Noah talks about him when Noah preached to the wicked in the days when Noah was alive the wicked would not hear him. The wicked rejected him. He came and he offered them life. He said, follow me and submit to the Lord of the worlds. But it was the leadership of the people who didn't like Noah. And they considered Noah's followers to be the meanest of the people. And they saw Noah as a man deluded. And so they mocked him and they ridiculed him. But Noah represented life to those wicked people. But in their rejecting Noah, they were ungrateful and unthankful to Almighty God who gave them a warner and a clue of his intentions against that world. So when the water began to come down, day one and day two, and day three and day four, by the seventh day they began to reflect on what Noah had been telling them. But then it was too late for Noah was in the ark and the ark was shut and many were trying to come to the ark but it was too late. And Jesus prophesied that many will be trying to get into the door at the last hour but it will be too late. It is a good thing to hear while you have time. To open your ears while you have time. For the ear will be the organ through which salvation will come. Amazing grace. How sweet the sound to save a wretch like me. It is the sound of the word of God that will enter into your ear and bring you up out of this wretched condition. You once were lost, but now if the word finds you, you are truly found. You will be blind, but when you hear the word, you will say, I see. Beloved, the man. When God destroyed the wicked in the days of Sodom and Gomorrah, the scripture reads, As it was in the days of Noah, so shall it be at the coming of the Son of Man. Lot the nephew of Abraham was preaching to the wicked in the days of Sodom and Gomorrah and the Holy Quran teaches us that that wickedness that took place in Sodom and Gomorrah was something that was never seen in the world before men coming to men with lust as they should come to a female so God out of concern for them hateful of the abominable behavior that they were practicing gave them a mercy from himself in the form of a man from among themselves. But they didn't like the fact that Noah was a human being, that Lot was a human being. And the Quran asks, is it any wonder to you that the reminder comes to you from a man from among yourselves? What else would God send you to remind you but a man? The Quran said had you been angels Allah would have sent an angel. But since you are not angels you are men God will send you a man. The son of man. Then the scripture tells us as lightning shineth from the east even unto the west so shall the coming of the son of man be. Jesus makes parables in the New Testament about this man, this great man, the man. He would come out of the east even unto the west. It is so beautiful when the Honorable Elijah Muhammad tells us that he was visited by the Lord of the worlds. Yes, a man, but not a man, the man. The man that the Quran was talking about. one perfect, one that attained to perfection yet a man, a man born yet born to be God, born to be ruler born to be king of kings and lord of lords born to be Jehovah that we might be his witnesses think it over beloved and the honorable Elijah Muhammad said in the midst of white America I met with the man Allah came in the person of the master Farad Muhammad, the man. But how will the man prove that he is the man? How would an electrician prove that he is the electrician? He can't come into a building that the lights are on. He must come into the building where there are no lights at all. And into a building where there a problem Everybody trying to turn on the lights can seem to see where the wires run or how to run the wires But this man comes in and he wires up the building and throws the switch and the lights are on You don't have to ask, is he the one? Is he the electrician? His work bears witness that he's the one. Now this mighty God being in the midst of America coming at a time when America is not paying attention to the prophet's predictions. As the scripture says of him he would come as a thief in the night. And he did come exactly as the prophets predicted. He was not coming to the Jews. He was not coming to the Arabs. He was not coming to the white Americans who had Moses, Jesus and the prophets and rejected them all and has been ungrateful and unthankful to them all. But he would come to the despised, to the rejected, to the unwanted, to the lost sheep of the house of Israel. And the lost sheep are the black people of America. And the Israel that she would be coming to is the United States of America which is the real Israel of the book. You are the sheep of Israel The preposition of denotes possession You are locked up by the Caucasian people Owned by them You wear their name You speak their language You have grown up in their ways You practice their norms You submit to their values You are their boy Their nigger Their comb Their shine Their ham bone You are the dead out of which God would rise up a man. You say impossible that the man could come out of the so-called American Negroes. Well, the impossible for man is the ordinary for God. The man. The scriptures of the Bible and Holy Koran begin to describe him. They say he would be a man like unto Moses. Because as Moses came to a people who were savage and had to teach them the arts and sciences of civilized people, so would Almighty God have to make a man for us out of this decayed matter called Negro. God would have to make a light for us out of a people that walked in darkness to prove that he is God. Just as he did in the beginning, he said, let there be light. And he brought light up out of darkness. He would say to the black people in America, let there be light among you. And he would bring out of this decayed matter, one that is called the lily of the valley or the rose of Sharon. since it's one of the first flowers of spring and it grows up out of a silt deposit which is kind of murky and filthy so will this one whom God would choose grow up out of a filthy people grow up out of an unclean people grow up in an unclean place surely there came over man a time when he was nothing that could be mentioned and the Quran asks the question how can you deny Allah and you were without life and he gave you life again he will cause you to die and again bring you to life then you shall be brought back to him beloved black people in America how can you deny almighty God Allah and the honorable Elijah Muhammad when through the Honorable Elijah Muhammad we received the gift of life. But the gift of life that has come to us from God through the Honorable Elijah Muhammad has put us now into a trial. We may be thankful or we could be unthankful. It is entirely up to you. But we have partaken of the light of God from the Honorable Elijah Muhammad. He has shown us a life to live that would prosper us. He has guided us and given us a program that would make us successful if we follow the elements in that program. So many of you who know of the Honorable Elijah Muhammad want to follow his economic program but you don want his spiritual program How foolish can you be How can you deny that the man is from God and yet take an element of his program you are just like the hypocrites of the holy Quran and Bible that want to take a piece of the word of God because that pleases you but you want to reject that part of the book that doesn't please you you must remember when sister Tynetta Muhammad was here a few days ago she said that the Honorable Elijah Muhammad taught her when she opens the Holy Quran she must put the Quran to her forehead she must kiss the Quran then she must turn it over on its back and press it to her forehead and kiss the Quran and then say Bismillah Ar-Rahman Ar-Rahim Ha'udu Billahi Shaitan Ar-Rahim and open the book but the placing of the book to your forehead and the kissing of the front cover and the placing of the book to your forehead and the kissing of the back cover means that you cannot accept a part of the book that pleases you and deny the part that displeases you. You must accept the word of God from one cover to another from the beginning of the revelation to the end of it. It is all yours and you are tested by those parts of the revelation that may displease you. Jesus had some crazy followers like that. They came to Jesus and said, Master, how can I attain the kingdom of heaven? He said, do the law of Moses and the young man said, I'm already doing that. Then Jesus said, go, take your possessions, sell them, give away your wealth to the poor. then come pick up your cross deny yourself and follow me the man said later jesus they want the results but they don't want the sacrifice they want the good of the revelation but they don't want to keep up the covenant how can you deny allah and you were without life and he gave you life but he promises that you will die and again bring you back to life and this is exactly what has happened in the life of the man the man the honorable Elijah Muhammad the man the light of the world the man him who walked among you the light that was in the darkness but we comprehended it not after the honorable Elijah Muhammad left us many of us denied him and in denying him we denied the light and in denying the light we denied the way that the light pointed out and the way that the light points out is the way of life and belief and gratitude and when we denied that light and denied that life and denied that way we became ungrateful and now those who once followed the Honorable Elijah Muhammad have degenerated into the death that they were in before they met him. But it is not totally lost but you must recognize the man. The man is the Honorable Elijah Muhammad. He's a man yet a man made into a God by the Lord of the worlds. Not a prophet but the end of prophets. In his first days among us He came among us as a messenger delivering a message. But that is his first state. In his second state he is crowned Lord of all. This is what your book tells you. The Christ. The anointed one. A man yet God. And if you believe in him he'll give you power to become the sons of God. Listen to the words that your brother speaks over this radio. This is not the word of any common preacher that you listen to day in and day out. This is the word of a young black man who never went inside the schools of theology except when they invited me and they sat there marveling over the wisdom and light of God coming from the mouth of this servant of the Honorable Elijah Muhammad. I never went to their schools of theology, but I was taught theology by that man, the man, That man with the light. That man who is the way, the life, and the truth. I was taught by Jesus the Christ. His name is Elijah Muhammad. He's the man. I'm sorry that our time is up. For today's broadcast, those of you who are not in our live audience.

We're going to go on for a few minutes after the broadcast is over, but that will teach you that you should be in the right place at the right time. Now this coming Wednesday night We will be blessed with the presence Of a great disciple of the Honorable Elijah Muhammad The man who was over The southern region The regional minister of the Honorable Elijah Muhammad Minister Abdul Rahman May Almighty God Allah bless each and every one of you. May the light of the man, the Honorable Elijah Muhammad, attract your mind to his truth from Almighty God, that you may come up out of this abject state of nothingness, even though there's a time over you that you can be considered nothing. If you would accept this light and this truth, you will become indeed a great man. Thank you for listening and may Allah bless each and every one of you until we meet again. I greet you in the Arabic greetings of peace. As-salamu alaykum. Wa alaykum alaykum. You may ask brother what you applauding for. You did the speaking. I'm not applauding for myself. Because I didn't do the speaking. Negro don't speak like this When you see your brother Talking not foolishness but wisdom Then you have to give the credit to Almighty God And God uses whom he pleases To speak through them for our people today And I say this in great humility You are very blessed people We are very blessed people Because Almighty God wants to use us to speak through us to the world. Now, you know, I'm going to take this to a conclusion. God, through the Honorable Elijah Muhammad, has pointed out a way. The Honorable Elijah Muhammad taught us that which would make us love one another that which would make us proud of ourselves that which would make us see into ourselves and know that we are not niggers Negroes we are the people of Almighty God when you know this then it's incumbent upon us to act in accord with that knowledge now ingratitude is one of the worst sins that we could be guilty of and I say this to any mother that's in this audience or any father any mother that knows the pain of bringing up your children in this adverse alien world who remembers the pain of birth and you can never forget it and remember what you have suffered for your children and remember what you have sacrificed that they may have the things that this world says they must have and then to see your children grow up and fight their parents and disrespect their parents. Some children even smacking their mothers, fighting their fathers. Well, if you are ungrateful for your mother and your father you certainly won be grateful to Almighty God This is the life that he gave us. Some people say God loaned us the life and he takes it back. there's nothing in scripture to support that that God gives you life on alone God is not a loner he's a giver he gives you life and then he instructs you and me how to preserve it how to protect it how to develop it, how to use it. Now, if you're thankful, you will follow his guidance and instructions and make something of your life. If you are unthankful, you will destroy your life and then blame God for your untimely death. May I say this to you as we conclude? The Honorable Elijah Muhammad said there is no set time for man to die. Many of us say, my time hasn't come. in one sense you're right but in another sense you misunderstand the scripture well if the scripture says there's a time to be born and a time to die a time to laugh and a time to weep a time to love and a time to hate for everything there's a time that's right but original man or black man God don't set time on the timeless. When did you begin, black man? You can't answer. How old are you, black man? Oh, you can say, hmm. Because you don't know when the black man began. before the earth was in its present form we were look brother before the sun was in the universe we were so teaches the honorable Elijah Muhammad and the scripture backs him up if you understand it we are descendants of the creator himself and if we are the direct not indirect but direct descendants of the creator then you don't put time on God they say he's from everlasting to everlasting and that's true we are from everlasting to everlasting. Now time was given in the Bible for the wicked. The wicked got a time to do their thing. The righteous don't have time. It says when the righteous rule time will be what? No more. This that you call time is not time. You are not to have time. You are to be the recipients of what they call eternal life, immortality, no death, no end because you can't find the beginning. Time is given to the wicked. They got a time to be born and they got a time to die. Well, I mean, we going to stay here forever? Yeah, we are going to stay here forever. And when this universe passes away and another one is brought in, we will be the bringers in of that as we brought in this. But you and I, we're not going to be here for everlasting because you are finite and I'm finite, but we are infinite. We go on and on and we have been and we shall be But the wicked they going to be cut off from the earth so teaches both the Bible and Holy Quran There a time set for the wicked The Honorable Elijah Muhammad says that when Moses taught the Caucasian, listen good, he said, if you obey my statutes and my commandments, you can live 120 years. he never compared the people that he taught with those old long livers, Methuselah and the old prophets, Noah and Noah, they lived a long time I mean the shortest life of those fellas was a little over 500 years you say it's impossible man just can't live that long why heck I'm nearly senile and I'm 45 those old patriarchs they lived long and they were shot right up to the day of their death but man who is not living in accord with the law of God cannot have extended days you're not in harmony with God's law he can't extend for you your days because you don't wish for your days to be extended now here's a poor brother he said I'm going to the whiskey store you coming with me? I got a dollar and a half you got anything? you going to put your dollar together and buy some whiskey okay that's your decision you both guzzle down the court some of your other buddies come up and they didn't put nothing in me and you baby we don't drink this now you can guzzle down the whole fifth and you're sick and you're messed up you keep that up for a while and after a while it's cirrhosis of the liver and the doctor tells you if you drink any more you're leaving you continue and you leave not a reverend in his foolishness dearly beloved God has called John home God haven't said a word he gave that fool life and that fool didn't take care of the gift by showing disrespect for the giver. He wasn't thankful for the gift and he wore it out. He didn't have to go home, but he went on home because the fool was too foolish to keep up life. And I say the same to you, beloved. God has given you life. You can hold on to it longer than you are holding on to life. And the reason that you don't live long is that you are following the Caucasian who is styled in the scripture as death itself. The white man's way of life is death. The white man's lifestyle kills him and kills you quicker. That's right brother. You can't live his life. There's only one life for you to live. And that's the life that Almighty God created you to live. And that's a righteous life, a clean life, an upright life. And that's what the Honorable Elijah Muhammad is calling us to. And we can be thankful or unthankful. So, brothers and sisters, I conclude. I'd like to read you something from the Koran. It says, oh you who believe, respond to Allah and his messenger when he calls you to that which gives you life. Respond to that call and know that Allah comes in between a man and his heart and to him you will be gathered Is that clear Now if somebody is calling you to life don be slow about it I would come. But, but what? Well, I ain't ready. you ain't ready for what for life what are you talking about well you see I've been listening to Elijah Muhammad a long time and I know his teachings is correct and all but I got some habits what are those habits called death why not give up death and accept life. Why are you so slow in responding to that which will give you life? Get up and make a fast pace toward life. You are holding back yourself, holding back your people because of your slowness. But know this, that Allah comes in between a man and his heart. The only thing that keeps you from responding is your desires that are low desires or bad desires or evil desires, and you know that what we are calling you to from the army Elijah Muhammad will cause you to put down the foolishness that you engaged in, and so you are halting between two opinions because you love filth and evil, but you like the truth too. Hell no, you can't have them both. You got to let one go in order to get the other. What is it you like? The other man's wife? That's death, brother. That's death. Look at all the people that woke up today and found out they had herpes. I mean, put yourself in their shoes for a minute. some of you already in those shoes you so slow in responding to right you say let me play a little more let me party a little more and now you got herpes or some other filthy disease but I'm on I'm coming man I just got to smoke one more cigarette You gonna let a cigarette Another little white thing Keep you from life brother Sister stop You say but I can't stop Oh yes you can Well what can I do to stop Stop Ain't nothing to do Is the cigarette God? Does it look like God? You think God is some tobacco rolled up in white paper? Evidently you must think it's God Because when you say I'm going to put it down You go right back and pick it up God wishes to be needed like you need the cigarette But you see when you really get in trouble Well, you don't call on the cigarette. You call on to God. Now, you just ought to stop. Let us stop being foolish. Let us stop delaying our journey toward life. Respond properly and be thankful, brothers and sisters. Look, in conclusion, you know, I thank Almighty God for the Honorable Elijah Muhammad. I don't know how to thank God enough for a light that showed me the way and through that light can show all of our people the way. I don't know how to respond but to serve the God and carry out his will. What other way is there? That shows gratitude. Many of you in this audience were mentally dead. Most of you. In fact, all of you. Until you responded to a call that gave you

gave you and me life. Is that right? Now, when you responded to that call that the Honorable Elijah Muhammad sent out, many of us got up out of the streets and out of the mud, and we were examples for black people. Black people may not have known our theology, but they really admired what the Muslims were doing. What we were doing was a living thing. And the moment we turned away from Elijah Muhammad, you notice we stopped doing what we used to do? Well, what does that tell you? That the man that we turned away from was light. You don't turn away from the sun and go into the darkness and think you're doing the sun some disservice. stay in the dock long enough and you may grow a tail and some of you have tails not physical tails but your animals that's a hard thing for me to say to my brothers and sisters but you're an animal you don't act human and if you look at black people you're looking at an animal existence out there brothers and sisters you go to church and you live like an animal you go to church and your life is the life of a dog forever as the dog walks on all fours with his tongue lolling out panting is it the way our life is walking with our head always on the ground looking at earthly things with our tongue hanging out panting after each other Following our low desires making them a God beside Almighty God so we're living an animal existence The Honorable Elijah Muhammad called us to stand upright To be men and women and you can't be a man and woman except you're a man and woman after God for God will pull you up the light pulls you up the white man's world keeps you crawling around on the level of the beast and that's why the book of Revelation styles the nations of this world as beasts and the people who live the life of the Caucasian are those marked with the mark of the beast in their forehead and in their hands. I don't want to be a beast. I want to be a man following after the man. I want to be an upright man. How can I be that if I don't respond to that which gives life? And I'm saying to you, beloved, if you are coming to this humble place, hearing the word of the Honorable Elijah Muhammad again and it gives you life then be grateful for that life. You can never pay God and the apostle back for the life that they give. So all you can say is let me follow that life. Let me do what I can to bring others out of darkness into that life to show my gratitude. and that's all I can do. I can never repay Allah and the messenger. If God blessed me to live a hundred years, or two hundred years, or five hundred years, I could not do anything to repay him for this wisdom and this light that has come into my life. I'm forever in the debt of God so the only thing I can do is take the life that he gave me and spend it in his way take the life that he gave me and spend it in his way so as I go around this country I am by his grace giving life but I'm spending the life that he gave me. There is no candle that gives light and heat that is not consumed As it gives light and heat it is also being consumed How will you spend your life Will you spend it for sport? Will you spend it for play? Will you spend it for pursuit of greatness in the white man's world? Or will you spend it in the way of God for the rising up of black people? That's your decision. You can be grateful or ungrateful. It is entirely up to you. Thank you for listening. As-salamu alaykum. Thank you. This Wednesday night, don't forget, Brother Abdul Rahman will be here and if it be the will of Allah I'll be right here with him and give me a great pleasure to introduce him he's from Atlanta, Georgia how many of you from Georgia? beautiful Georgia's a great state the Honorable Elijah Muhammad came from there and Abdul Rahman was a great soldier in the nation and he never thought he would teach the word and Atlanta is a city of education and Brother Rachman was the least educated of the brothers that the messenger sent to Atlanta but he was the most successful. He was nervous on going because that's where he used to cut the food. So the messenger said to him, brother, don't worry about going there where you used to cut the fool. Because I used to cut the fool in Detroit and that's where Allah met me and missioned me. So Brother Rahman went to Atlanta and made it great in the way of Allah. and now he's back up helping his brother to lift up the name of the man our father the Honorable Elijah Muhammad and he was out on the west coast recently lit up the west coast and he sat down with some of the other great disciples of the Honorable Elijah Muhammad and sort of lit them up And I wouldn't be a bit surprised if in the near future, Brother Muhammad Ali will be coming back this way and Abdul Kareem and the rest of those great disciples and Jeremiah and all of them. I've heard word that they are ready and that they want to help me. I'm very grateful. Brother Rachman looked at me and just broke down and cried. And he said, Brother, I just kicked myself every time I saw you. Because you treated me so kind. And you never beat on me. For not helping you. But I just came to the point where I couldn't live with myself anymore. If I didn't stand up for the Honorable Elijah Muhammad. So what can you say? These men were taught by the messenger. And they know now that in him is life. Because they don't have life now. But, you know, in coming to help me. In this work, some of them are a little nervous because they feel they did their brother wrong. Some of them are a little nervous because they may have been involved in a plot against my life. some of them may be a little timid because they don't know how their brother is going to take them well when you plot against my life you plotting against your own because no man can take my life from me unless it pleases God And it hurts me to see some of our brothers and sisters falling into that kind of, I would just call it ignorance. And now that they are beginning to see that Allah is making me successful, I'm sure it must be a little painful for my brothers and sisters to know that the work is going on all over the country and they know the way and could help me and are withholding their hands from helping me because they don't like me this is not intelligent. Why don't you like me? You shouldn't like me. You really should love me. That's right. You should. But should is conditional. If your mind was right, if you were in your right mind you would love me but sometimes you cannot see for the garbage that you listen to and it poisons you against a proper response to that call which gives you life and it is largely because most of you do not acquaint yourself with the scriptures and what kind of work you should expect me to do in carrying on the work of the Honorable Elijah Muhammad. You don't know what to expect of me. May I tell you what you should expect? You know, brothers, sisters, some of you want me to confine myself to the temple. Some of you don't like the fact that I extend myself to my Christian brothers and sisters. and because they are showing love for me some of you may think that Brother Farrakhan is compromising the teachings because they didn't show love for the Honorable Elijah Muhammad but the Honorable Elijah Muhammad told you and me that all the preachers would come at a certain time The preachers are not evil men. Some of them are evil, naturally. Some of us are that way. So we shouldn't be surprised there's some evil preachers. But don't you know the reason they didn't come? Look, these are people that were reared up in Christianity You come to them offering them Islam They don't know anything about Islam They don't know anything about a God named Allah Or a man named Muhammad They think you're trying to take them away from Jesus And you wonder why they reject you They're not rejecting you, but they reject anything that they think will take them away from that which represents to them their salvation. And can you blame them? Well, why are they accepting me? Why do they invite me to preach in their churches now? Some of them have turned over their 11 o'clock service. And say, go ahead, Brother Farrakhan, you take it today. Do you know why? How many of you heard the Honorable Elijah Muhammad hint or write that the Jesus that you are looking for is a man that would come up in the last days not the man that was here 2 years ago how many of you heard I don be Elijah Muhammad say something like that do you know the man that was here 2,000 years ago that Jesus he lived he did a great work he died and is gone he said before one generation shall pass you would see the kingdom of heaven coming in all its glory. It couldn't have referred to the man that was here 2,000 years ago. Many generations have passed. In fact, 200 generations or at least 100 generations have passed. No, you and I have misunderstood the scripture. The Jesus that you're clamoring over is a man that will come in the last days and believe it or not, he's to come right up from among you. You have been so blinded going back in a time machine looking for the Jesus that spoke to ancient Rome and you cannot see that you live in modern Rome. And that Rome back there was a baby compared to America today. Look at your captivity and the Jewish captivity. Yours is a greater captivity than the Jews who were under Roman authority. It is you that this government slays every time they think a leader is coming up among you. They kill your leader. Herod wanted all boy babies killed because he knew the time had come. They saw the star in the east that there was time that the Messiah should be born. The Messiah didn't come 2,000 years ago. The Messiah comes at the end of the world. Another name for the Messiah is the Christ. And the Christ is God in person. Not yesterday, but today. And the white man got you looking. I mean, he was so crafty. He painted Jesus up as a white man and got you looking for the return of a white man for your salvation. When the white man knows that Jesus didn't look like that at all. The reason they accept me is because my work, brothers and sisters, based in the Honorable Elijah Muhammad is similar to the work of Peter and Paul in their relationship to Jesus the Christ. After Peter stumbled and fell and denied the Lord, he still had a mission. And that mission was to go after he had been reconverted and strengthen the people, his brethren. And when Peter stood up, the Christians who knew that he had denied Jesus, they didn't want nothing to do with Peter. And it's the same today. When I have stood up for the Honorable Elijah Muhammad, many of those who follow the Honorable Elijah Muhammad didn't want nothing to do with me. Yet they read the scripture. My history is written there. what I have done and what I will do is in the book you in the book we are the people of the book the Bible is alive it's walking, living and breathing how come you can believe the Bible when you read it but can't believe it when you see it now I'm going to leave you look Peter saw a table come down from heaven is that right? now the Jews had been told certain meat that they should not eat unclean is that right? Peter saw this table in a vision come down this cloth and on this cloth was all kind of meat and he was told to eat this meat and Peter was fighting he said look I can't eat that I've never eaten anything unclean. And the answer came back, nothing that I create is unclean. Listen, beloved, you know that's not talking about meat. Because there are unclean meats. There are filthy animals

that live from filth and decayed matter that God created. Are you to eat a raven? Are you to eat a buzzard? No. God created it. Why don't you eat it? You that give the argument, I can smoke herb, God created it. Well, eat the buzzard then. Eat the python. Eat the possum. Some of you do. Eat the coon, a big grown-up rat, and you still eating it. God made a lot of unclean things. And he forbids you and me to eat unclean things. Well, Peter was upset. What do you mean eat this meat? and the guard told him there's nothing that I created that's unclean you know what that is referring to beloved if you look at the Muslims while the honorable Elijah Muhammad was among us we were a very exclusive group we didn't go out among our people and partake with them many of our people were a little displeased with us. We didn't march with them. We didn't picket with them. We didn't do this with them. We only sold the paper and showed them a better way. And I don't be lied to Mohammed would not allow that. And the reason he didn't allow it was because he was making an example here and he did not want any element in that example that was not clean. And everything that came to us when the thing became unclean, he put it out. Is that right? A person that committed fornication couldn't stay among us. If we found out about it, they were gone. Is that right? If they drank, they were put out. Is that right? If they smoked, they were put out. Think about that. Because if you want to defile yourself, it won't be long before you defile others. So the key is, do you want to clean up your life? so that you can be a part of a body of clean people. He did that because there was a season and a time for that. But now when Peter was to go out on his work, Peter had to speak to the unclean, uncircumcised people. The Jews only wanted Peter to confine himself to talking to them. What are you going to the Gentiles for? because nothing that I created is unclean. All your people, I don't care what kind of life they're in, they are of the righteous. Why shouldn't I be found where the people are? Didn't Jesus sit down with the publicans and the sinners and they say, well, how could he be a divine man sitting down eating with these kind of people? What do you think? If you already have the life, what do I need to waste time being with you for? You got it. You can see for yourself. Leave me alone and let me go and do what I'm supposed to do. Why would you talk evil of a work that is stirring up the whole country to your leader and teacher? Farrakhan speaks of Malcolm. Malcolm was an enemy of Elijah Muhammad. Why should Farrakhan say anything about Malcolm? I refuse to listen to him. Well then get the hell off the planet then. You're a fool. Was Ya'cub the enemy of God? Did you come to the temple and learn about Ya'cub? Did somebody have to speak to you about him? Why? Because if you don't know the root of the enemy, how in the hell can you escape the enemy? All of our people who don't know Elijah Muhammad know Malcolm. And they love and admire Malcolm. You can't put your head under a bushel and say Malcolm don't exist. Malcolm is real His deviation is real But if you can face up to Malcolm intelligently unemotionally and speak of his value and speak of his deviation so that your people will escape what Malcolm fell under, then how are you going to raise them up when Malcolm is a part of the tombstone under which they are buried? You don't have my job, so shut up and let me do what I'm commanded to do. to do. Little sideline hypocrites that not doing a doggone thing in the way of Elijah Muhammad but want to tear apart and condemn and pull apart a man that has lifted his name up almost single-handedly. You have done nothing for Elijah But I'm out there battling night and day for that man While you sit in the cool of the evening Hiding in your living room I'm battling for him And my life is on the line What the hell right you have To condemn the good that I'm doing in his name I should snatch your tongue out and feed it to you. And one day maybe we will. You cut that foolishness out. You see somebody doing a good work and there's something they're doing that you don't understand. don't think that you know all about Elijah Muhammad knowledge. If you knew all about it why don't you take the mission and go wake up the dead nation? He didn't give you the job. He gave it to me and gave me the keys and the authority to do what I'm doing. If I didn't have the authority from him to do it I wouldn't be successful in doing it. If you can't help me, why don't you leave me alone? But your mouths are so wicked and filthy. Elijah Muhammad said this. Elijah Muhammad said that, you see. And here's where he deviated. Point it out to me with truth and open up the scripture and show me where I'm not on it. If I'm not on it, Paul never existed. If I'm not on it, Peter never existed. If I'm not on it, Jesus never came here. I'm as on it as God himself is on it because he put me on it. That's right, brother. But if you don't know, and refuse to study, then you meet the game sayers and the hypocrites. People who claim to love Elijah Muhammad but not doing nothing for the good of that man. But running around tearing down the work that I'm trying to build up. You're going over there to listen to Fire Con? What have you heard other than good? Well, you will lose. And ultimately, you will have to come by me. And it will be a hard day for you when you've got to look at the brother that you've been spouting off all this evil and the God and the messenger have given him the keys to admit you in or lock you out. That's a hard day for a hypocrite and a disbeliever. Can you imagine how Joseph's brothers felt when the man that they had tried to kill ended up with the key to the greenhouse and they were hungry and they had to go right back by the brother that they had done in and he had to end up feeding them. Brother, don't play with God. This is not our men's work. None of us and all of us put together couldn't raise the nation back up. Only Allah can raise this nation up He and his messenger And believe me we can guide this He says, except the Lord build the house, the house won't get built. He's building it. He's guiding it's being rebuilt. But you don't see him. he put in front of you one that you can watch and see his work coming right through that one which one of the favors of your Lord will you deny come on brothers and sisters don't be ungrateful don't fight that which is giving you life naturally the people are going to talk but your argument should be strong enough to silence foolishness. And you know what? When you don't have a strong argument and you remain silent and you refuse to defend the truth and the good that you know, you become victimized by that which you hear. And you may come here but your heart is not here and you may be with us for a minute and in that minute you look so good and then all of a sudden we see you fade and the light goes out of your face and your skin becomes dark your expression begins to change and we can tell you run into a devil and the devil has actually snatched the light out of your heart and that goes for every one of you when you like what you hear you go and try to tell somebody and if you like what you heard and you gain something from it you say you know I was at that final call betting the Muslims and I heard it was beautiful what? you was over there with them people? and you like what then the phone go to ringing. Child, I think sister, son of went crazy. Oh. I mean, they go to working on you then. Your family begin calling you. Where is this I heard that you been? Do you know these Muslims, they killed Malcolm. Do you know they did this? Do you know they did that? Do you know they do this? And you start gulping, well I don't know nothing about that. Well you better ask them about it. You see you just so gullible and stupid. And then they make you feel like you're dumb and silly and ignorant. Because you came over here to hear something. You're not dumb if you go visit the Pope. And the Pope all he do is throw a little water from the toilet in your face. And you come back, I see the Pope, honey. I see the Pope. I was in the audience and I felt so blessed because you see them carry a man on their shoulder, walking with him. Sit him down and men run up and kiss his ring and that's all right. But you can't walk into a place where your black people are and hear a message that's good for you. And I ain't asked you to kiss no ring and carry me on no shoulder, neither did Elijah Muhammad. But you follow those who don't have no authority at all and you reject those who have authority from God. Carol. Look, sister, look, look, look. if you find a man that you fall in love with you think you're the only one that want it now why you had to go that way brother I just want to make a parable if you want the man and somebody else want him and both of you are fighting for the same man don't you know somebody going to say child I know that man Why that man ain't nothing but a womanizer He this, he that You say what? And then the minute you say Oh well That's the kind of man he is Next time he calls me I slam the phone down And she's saying I sure hope you do Then the next thing you look up Here the same woman Walking down the aisle with the man She jived you out to give up She got him now. The Indians were conned out of Manhattan for $24. dollars. And when you find something of value, don't you know you're supposed to hold on to it? And the minute you go with something of value and say, look what I found. You open your hand, oh, that ain't nothing. And they make believe they threw it away. And sometimes they'll throw it away because it ain't valuable to them. You're going down there with those people who are trying to take you away from the Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. That's a shame. And you've got a church on every corner going up and down Ashland. All of them preaching the same Lord. And if you go in there, one preacher is speaking against the preacher down there because he don't want you to bring your money for the collection basket to them, bring it to him. Argument, fighting going on. You don't understand. No, beloved. You say, I like what I heard and I'm going there again. Stand up. You done come all this way and found something that will get you through a hostile environment and you're going to blow it because your mama don't like it she didn't like the husband that she married and got children from I can't trust you making no choice for me you ain't never made a good choice you don't like the man you got he don't like the woman he chose? You can't make no choice for my life. I make the decision over my life. God give me that right. And if I hear truth and I find that it is the truth and I grab hold to it, my wife can like it or don't like it. My mother can like it or don't like it. I tell my mother when I accepted this teaching, I said, look, Mom. I said, I found the truth. I said, and that's where I'm going to be. She said, child, and I actually, I was disrespectful. I said, Ma, I done heard you talk all my life. I want you to shut up and listen to me. I was disrespectful because that's the way you are when you find the truth. Sometimes you're so zealous over it, you go to hurting people rather than helping people with the foul, sharp tongue. Well, I've always had a sharp, foul tongue. And that's why God is using my sharp tongue to cut down this foul world. And I love it. No, beloved. Please, do yourself a favor. if you like what you heard and you're yet not able to defend it say like this I like what I heard and the man down there speaking maybe you can raise a question why question me I'm not able to answer the question I just went there but I know you're smart I know you're smart so why don't you come with me and hear that man and then you question him since you the smart one in the family. Bring all your smart ones in the family here if you can't handle them. And I bet you they'll walk out of here by the help of God with their tail between their legs. You're not as smart as you think you are. Not if you go to condemning truth. because the truth condemns you if you are trying to condemn truth. Hold on to Islam. Hold on to the truth. Fight for what is right. Stand up for what is right. And Allah will stand with you. You never stand alone. You know that song you sing in the church? Stand up. Stand up for Jesus. That's powerful.

And you know what that means? Don't lay down on his truth. And when you hear people speaking evil of him, stand up for him. And if you do that, the book says, if you resist the devil, he'll flee from you. Thank you, brothers and sisters. Those of you who love the honor of Elijah Muhammad, don't hold back from your brother. Help me. Help me, and I guarantee you, Allah will help you. Help me to do this work of raising up our people. And if you don't, it's all right. Allah will always bring someone who will. Thank you for listening. Is it 3 o'clock now? Yes, sir. Two minutes, sir. Two minutes, two, three? Well, I guess it's time to go. Yes, ma'am? Thank you. Brothers and sisters, how many of you heard what you heard today and believe what you heard taught that it is the truth May I see your hands Very good Those of you who believe that this is the truth and would like to unite with us behind the leadership of the Honorable Elijah Muhammad. May I see your hands, please? Thank you. Thank you. And those of you who are not yet ready to make that step, What I'd like you to do is go home and think about the questions that you would like to raise to us. Okay? Think about the question you would like to. And would you write down your questions and bring your questions in These questions Sunday after next we hope to answer over the radio. We're going to open up the phones and let those in the audience and those here question us for one hour on the teaching of the Honorable Elijah Muhammad. And I won't necessarily know the question before the question is given, but I do believe that Allah will give me the answer if not to 100% of your questions to at least 98 and 9 tenths percent of your questions. there is not a question that can be asked that does not have an answer I don't say that I know the answer but I do know the answer man and in his teachings there is an answer to every question so I don want anyone to feel bashful about asking questions Okay And those of you who are not yet sure that this is a move you like to make listen you continue to come back here and ask questions until you're satisfied. And if you are, or when you become satisfied, then help me. Those of you who love the Honorable Elijah Muhammad Don't hold back from your brother Help me Help me and I guarantee you Allah will help you Help me to do this work Of raising up our people And if you don't It's alright Allah will always bring someone Who will Thank you for listening Is it 3 o'clock now? Yes, sir, two minutes. Two minutes, two, three? Well, I guess it's time to go. Yes, ma'am? Brothers and sisters, how many of you heard what you heard today and believe what you heard taught that it is the truth? May I see your hands?