3-21-76

Yacub’s History
Imam W. Deen Mohammed

Transcribed by Les Taha

Allahu Akbar. In the Name of Allah, the Beneficent, the Merciful. 

Dear beloved brothers and sisters I greet you in the greetings of all prophets from Abraham to Muhammad the last, As Salaam Alaikum. 

It’s a very beautiful day today. As we promised we want to talk on the history of Yacub part two. Yacub is a strange name in America, but in the east Yacub is no strange name. If you go to the (unclear) or an Arabic speaking land and say Yacub they all understand what you’re talking about. Yacub means Jacob, and Jacob is the man in the Bible that did a lot of deceitful things. He was a great trickster. He had many tricks. And his mother got him started according to the Bible. She told him how to trick his own brother out of his birthright; out of his inheritance that he was to receive from his father Isaac. I want to read from Genesis chapter 35 verse 4, this is on Jacob. It says, “and they gave unto Jacob all the strange gods which were in their hand”, (now this is a story of Jacob while he was traveling, migrating with his community, or his followers), “and all of their earrings which were in their ears”. Earrings here. Strange gods and earrings. Strange gods; don’t think of material or physical objects like what you see in the world today, the statue of Buddha and other statues. Don’t think it’s talking about that, it’s talking about something more meaningful than that.

It’s talking about those things that people really worship that are strange gods; powers and forces, corruption, lies, and schemes that hide divine truth. So Jacob here is the leader of these people and he received their strange gods to protect them from others who would detect these gods and make war against them, drive them out. So they hid the strange gods, and they also gave the earring. Earrings here, the ear; it adheres to the ear. Earring here means the knowledge that gives you understanding and enables you to hear the truth. Or we can say truth for the ear. Truth for the ear is not always truth for the mind, do you understand that? If my truth is above your mind then it will pass your ear. Right? But if my truth is on the level of your understanding, then it will enter your ear. Your ear will understand exactly what I’m talking about. So earrings here is symbolic of that plain simple truth that they had that would expose their scheme if they let that truth be seen in the society. So they had to hide that truth. So he took the earrings too. Ring is symbolic of, - ring means circle, you see it’s a circle. The ring is a circle. And circle in religion refers to the secret order of religion. The inner order of the religion. 

We read about Ezekiel’s wheel. We think that it’s really some crazy, - a writer even wrote that Ezekiel’s wheel is some spaceship or something, you see. But a wheel is a common word in religion and it only means the community of people who share one knowledge, and that knowledge is complete. Right now when the Jews said (some of them) they sit and they form a circle. That’s the wheel. Right now some Muslims sit and when they sit they form a circle and they meditate, they read, they study, and they meditate. That’s the wheel, that’s the circle, that’s the wheel. Also, a kind of identifying word to identify the whole society of the religions people. So here we have earrings here and it indicates that the knowledge that they were able to carry or bear in or by their ears was their religious knowledge or secret knowledge. So Jacob, he didn’t want this knowledge exposed to the community. He hid that knowledge, and he hid those things that they worship. Those strange things that they worship. We’re talking about the people that have come to be known as Jews. In the early history they were called Jacob, or Jacobites. And it was these people who came into the so-called Biblical religion and led the world until now in religion.

Their history in its beginnings is a  history of death, deceit, lies, trouble making, corrupting things that were natural; taken out of their natural state and form. This is their history, and you can read it for your self in the Genesis under the name Jacob. And Jacob hid them under the oak which was by Shechem. Now he hid them under an oak. You who have been following our teachings here recently, you know that we identified tree as people, a community of people. So the oak here stands for, - an oak tree is a strong tree. You who have seen oak trees you know that oak trees are thick, strong trees. So he hid it under a big strong tree, what does that represent? A big strong people, a big strong nation. He hid a strange god, and his religious truth, or secret teachings in a strong nation, but he hid it under the tree where the nation wouldn’t be able to see it. Now this is referring to the way of the Jacobite. When they come into a land, into a new land they don’t let themselves be seen. They hide themselves. They show only that part of themselves that they want the world to see, but they hide their secrets. They hide their plans, so that they will survive. 

And you know the Jew, the Jacobite people, I prefer to use the word Jacob and Jacobite because all Jews don’t fall under this description. The Jacobite people, they are defined in the Bible as a people without a home. They roam from place to place.

They had a settlement, a land, a country in Jerusalem so the Bible says for a while that was established first by Jacob who brought them into the land and then they had a king and a prophet and David, but they finally lost it and they began to roam again from one land to another land. They were persecuted, so the book says. They were made slaves in Egypt, and they were persecuted in Babylon and in other places. And they were hoping that one day they would have a land of their own. Hoping that G-d would soon fulfill the promise and give them a land of their own; Canaan land as the teachings, or as the Bible goes. But we are not talking about a people who are following the true G-d, and trying to establish themselves as a righteous people in the land to be an example for other people. We’re talking about people who had a scheme, a plan to do things their own way and capture the world by their own power, and put the world in their own hand. That’s what we are talking about. A people with a plan like that. And these people, once they got the world into their hand then they were going to present their Christ for the world to bow down to. 

In the history of Jacob as it was given to us by the Hon. Elijah Muhammad (peace be on him). Jacob, or the Jacobite people are called Yacub. The Arabic name, or Qur’anic name is given. This Yacub history as we received it is a history of the birth or the making and the birth and development, of sin, evil. It is a history that is given in allegorical language. The Hon. Master Elijah Muhammad used to tell us never think that you understand or know it, just having read it. He said, but look deep into it; study it. Go deep into the meaning. He said there is more to it then what meets the eve. So he’s taught us that and encouraged us to study deep, and try to get understanding out of the lessons. Today we have that understanding, and now all praise is due to Allah that understanding is truly bringing us into a new life, new world, and a new sense of happiness, peace or paradise. There are two great characters. One is called the Satan; the chief devil, and the other one is just called devil. Some of us make the mistake of seeing the two as one in the same. We think that Satan and the devil are the same thing. Satan and the devil are two different mentalities. Satan mentality is one that actually thinks it works for G-d. Whereas the devil knows he’s wicked, knows he’s no good. Read the scripture and you’ll find that when Jesus, and remember that even Genesis is also allegorical. Everything that meets you eye is not the actual plane truth. You have to have understanding.

When Jesus was driving out devils, those devils always admitted their weaknesses, their wickedness, their evil. They didn’t pretend to be something other than devils. When they were discovered they just fled. Is that right? But read the history of Satan. Satan is a contender. He tries to defend himself, because Satan actually thinks he’s serving G-d. Satan thinks he’s the only mentality, or the only (unclear) form that really is able to run this world. He has no respect for the true man, or the true woman. He thinks they are too frail, too inferior to manage their affairs. That their affairs has to be managed by him. This is Satan, not a spirit, not a spook, but a mind, a mentality that rules in certain people of the world, and has ruled for thousands of years. But now that rule is broken. That rule is coming to an end. All praise is due to Allah. So Satan according to the scripture, we’re talking about Yacub’s history. Yacub’s history is the history of the devil. From Satan to its very end. 

When we read the scripture we see the devil in his original position as chief angel. He was the leader, or the head, or the chief among the angels. He rebelled and took on a corrupt, evil nature. That was already in him, but he had not been put under pressure so that nature hadn’t come out. But as soon as he was put under pressure that nature that was in him came out, and all of a sudden the shiny angel became Satan, the enemy of man or humanity. Satan literally means enemy of man, or humanity. Man here means man as G-d chose to make man, or create man. There are many human beings who think themselves to be men, and women, but there are few human beings who meet that description that G-d intended for us, men and women. G-d intended that we have a mind that is in accord with truth and righteousness, and justice, and peace, and mercy or charity. He didn’t intend that we have selfish minds, envious minds, corrupt minds, deceitful minds, materialistic minds. He didn’t intend that we have this kind of mind. So these children according to scripture are not called the children of G-d. They are not the human being, of the mind that G-d wanted. They are the children of the world and the children of the devil, according to scripture.

So what do we have when we look at the history of Yacub? We have the history of a master deceiver. One who had thought that he was so wise that he could capture the world in his hand and shape it into any shape that he wanted it to come into, and bring it step by step to where he wanted it to come, and then finally present  himself, reveal his plan to the world. He said see now how I’ve brought you step by step. See how I’ve brought you from Eden to America. So he will reveal his plan from Eden to America, and show you that he was the one that brought you from Eden to America. He will show you that he is the one that had the power and the knowledge to bring you from Eden to America. That your life has really been in his hand. Your father has really been him, or he. And when he shows you that, the world will have to admit it saying yes we have to confess this is the Christ. He wouldn’t say I’m Satan. He will say I’m the Christ. And he had planned so well until Muhammad came along and messed up his plan. He had it planned so well. All praise is due to Allah. He made the European Christian, but their life was nothing like the life of Christ. They turned out to be some of the most wicked people, in fact there was no people in the history of humanity that turned out to be as cruel, as inhuman as wicked, as sinful and corrupt as the European (unclear) that rose up in the name, or under the name of Christianity.

It was Jacob, Yacub, he was the one who gave birth to this new Caucasian, or gentile mentality. Before Jacob got a hold to the gentile, the gentile was only a jinn, and a jinn means one whose nature is given to his flesh of passions. One who can’t control his flesh appetites. When we study the history of the Europeans before Christianity came and dominated them, they were a jinn like people. They were a people given to lusts, and bloodshed, but they weren’t a people who were wicked and wise like a devil or like Satan. We found among them human beings and devils. We found even in their government human government and devil government. That was before they came under Christianity. But when Europe came under Christianity we saw in their government the devil. I’m giving you the truth, you can accept it or reject it. Don’t think I’m here to beg you to believe what I’m saying. 

Don’t think that you’re going to hurt my feelings if you don’t believe it. My feelings have already been hurt. The worse hurt is to see you in your ignorance. So it was these people, the Jacobite that took Jesus and they took Abraham. Took Jesus and they took Moses, and (unclear) the Jesus into the state that they wanted the Jesus to be in to serve them as a tool to help bring about their work. To help them cut the world out as they had planned to cut it out. So in the lessons we are told that they used the name Jesus, the name of a righteous prophet to shield or hide their dirty religion which is called Christianity. Now I don’t want to shock any good Christians because you have only been able to see the sweetness. You’ve only been able to taste the candy of Christianity. You don’t see that bit of coldness that’s killing your spirit, killing your human nature, making you an animal and a wicked minded person. You can’t see that. You only see the sweetness. You only see the beauty. You only see the candy, and that’s what you eat, that’s what you taste, and you say Christianity is sweet. It is sweet, too sweet. That’s the west with sugar diabetes; a terminal disease.

And the Jacobite, he’s laughing. (unclear section)...He’s seen the Christ on the scene again. Not Christ in the flesh. The book doesn’t say the Christ will come in the flesh. The book says, if they should tell you that he’s in the (unclear), don’t go there looking for him. It says they should tell you that he’s in the secret chamber, meaning in the synagogue, in the church. Don’t go there looking for him. It says that as the light shineth out of the east even unto the west, so shall also the coming of Christ will be. That’s what the book says. So we are not to look for G-d in any body, any human flesh body. We are not to look for Christ in any human flesh body, walking out in the dessert of Jerusalem somewhere or Arabia. We’re not to look for him like that. We’re not to look for him as the Pope hidden in the secret chamber in Rome, in the Vatican. We’re to look for him in the manifestation of light. Light bears knowledge. Knowledge to light up the dark quarters of your mind, and make your being shine again. You see? Jacob. 

I want you to have patience here today. We want to go now and trace the steps of the scheme from Genesis to Revelation. I hope we can do this very quick, and I think we can because there is one prophet called Noah that when we look at him and study what is said about him we can see the whole scheme from beginning to end. The scheme is so complete in him that the book says that as it was in the day of Noah so shall it be in the day of the coming of the Son of Man. If you can see the scheme that is under the name Noah, then you’ll be able to see the plan that undoes that scheme that comes with the Son of Man of the new Christ, the second coming of the Christ. So let’s go now to the story of Noah and look at a few things and see if you can strain your mind and follow me. You know a rust, a screw, or a piece in a machinery that has become rusted, if you want to turn it you’re going to have to put some oil on it, or either put some real muscle to it. Well see the minds of this world using..... (end of side one of the tape).

This world has been giving you a lot of Christianity and the more they give the society, the more materialistic society grows, the more wicked society grows. David is a type of the Christ, and David’s head was baptized with oil. It said his head was anointed with oil until the cup ran over. All praise is due to Allah. Water you know; it’s good to think about these elements. Water soaks down into a thing. It seeks its level, but it also has the power to kind of rise up a little bit too. They called it I think in science osmosis, is that it? Is it osmosis? I didn’t go too far in school. I think it’s osmosis. Osmosis is the ability of a liquid to move up a bit along fabric or tubes, and water has that ability to craw up a bit, you see. But it’s heavy. It’s heavy isn’t it. Water is heavier than most solids. So the water when you put it in, it goes right to the bottom, if soaks down. If you put water in the earth, it soaks down. Water is very heavy. I think it’s almost the heaviest liquid that we have. Now oil, it’s a liquid too, but the power of penetration is greater in oil than in water, and the power to crawl up is greater in oil than in water. So those who have water have something inferior to oil. You see? The Christians have water, the Muslims have oil. And water is used to put out fire, right? So the Christians, they sprinkle the society with their teaching hoping that they could put out the fire of lust, adultery, lying and stealing, you see? 

If the society hadn’t grown strong as a materialistic society perhaps that water would put out the fire, but once a fire gets as big as the materialism is in this western world, water doesn’t put it out. You put water on it and the fire seems to blaze up. Have you ever seen people trying to put out a big fire with water? They throw water on the fire and the fire blazes up; looks like it being fed by water. Oil, if you throw it on fire, it will feed fire, right? It will make the light of the fire feel brighter. You start throwing oil on fire and you’re going to burn up everything. But according to the scripture, that needs to happen in the end of time. There is Jacob growing from Genesis to Revelation. He began in Genesis as a snake, and he becomes a mighty dragon, a beast in Revelation. He didn’t change his nature or form he’s still reptile, but in Revelation he’s huge, and he has gotten the power to produce fire himself. A fiery dragon. And the book says that, that beast’s body was given to the flames. He was already in water. It says the beast was found in the lake, and of course water couldn’t drown him. He was right at home in that lake. He had set up a kingdom, his kingdom was in that sweet water lake; the sugar diabetes religion. This is the Bible. Bring any preacher, bring the pope himself, and I’ll make him confess right here before you that I’m right. All praise is due to G-d.

Allah has certainly blessed us, and that is in accord with the scripture too. The scripture didn’t say that G-d was going to bring somebody from on high in the last day to manifest His great power. It says as it was in the beginning so shall it be in the end. In the beginning G-d made His man from dust, so in the end He must make his man from dust, not from the wealthy people who have grown as mountains on the earth, but from those little people who are nothing but fine grains of material strength in the society. Without strength, without life, dust in the society. The book says that G-d will make his man from that people. Okay if that’s not good enough for you Mr. Preacher I’ll give you something else. The book says that, that Christ that is to rule the world, it says it looks like he was (unclear) from the very foundation. He wasn’t one that was on top. He was one at the foundation, and at the foundation he had been destroyed. Now who was at the foundation, who was at the foundation of the governments of the world? It is the masses, the rejected masses, those that don’t have knowledge, and don’t have material power. So the book says that the Christ to save the world will be brought from that kind of people.

Alright, go on a wrestle with this angel Jacob. I can feel you out there squirming. Wrestling trying to throw my thigh bone out of place. You’re going to throw your own thigh bone out of place wrestling with me. Now let’s look at Noah now. Noah, he came at a time when the world thought everything was rosy. They weren’t worrying about anything, and Noah said that it’s going to rain forty days and forty nights. The people didn’t believe him. The world looked alright, it looked safe and prosperous to them, but Noah, he saw something that they didn’t see. Noah according to Bible description, and according to authority in the seminaries, Noah stands for the rational mind, the reasoning power, sound reasoning. You see there are many kinds of reasoning, false reasoning, weak reasoning, reasoning that’s influence by selfish motives. So that reasoning is weak. And reasoning that’s been influence by falsehood, that reasoning is false. Is that right? Sound reasoning, established on truth, this is what Noah represents. And He being in touch with reality and truth was able to see weaknesses, flaws in the society that was going to bring about the fall of that world order that he lived in. So he began to warn them, - it’s going to rain.

What does rain mean? Rain means that G-d is going to start sending you prophets to bring you from this fall you’re about to come to. But they didn’t believe him. They didn’t believe John the Baptist when he told them that the time was at hand, destruction was near. And Christ came behind John the Baptist according to the book, and they didn’t believe him either, but Jerusalem fell. It was burned by the Romans. Is that right? But they didn’t believe it. Alright, let’s keep going now. So Noah said it’s going to rain forty days and forty nights. This means that G-d is going to thoroughly saturate the society with divine revelation, by sending one man behind another to deliver his guiding light. But the world because it’s so engrossed in a sense of security, it’s not going to understand that truth. It’s going to be water on a duck’s back. So the water is just going to pile up, and pile up, and pile up until it begins to drown the flesh of the earth. What does this mean now? We know in Christian language, they teach us that we’re suppose to kill our flesh so that our souls may live. Is that right? Now is this the kind of understanding that we should apply to Noah’s flood? No, it won’t be correct. This rain wasn’t design to kill the physical body. It wasn’t even designed to kill the animal nature in the physical body. Where do we get the proof of this? In the description of those creatures that Noah took into the ark. 

G-d told him to bring animals of every kind into the ark. If G-d wanted to destroy the animal nature in man, then He wouldn’t have told Noah to bring those animals into the ark. You see? The revelation that G-d brought about in that day and time wasn’t to kill the animal nature in us. It came to clean our moral nature. You don’t have to kill the animal, aggressive nature in man to make him morally clean. G-d wants that nature in his man so that when an animal rises up, his man will be able to deal with that animal. If the whole world becomes a world of spiritual sheep, the wolves of the world would eat us all up. The church went off thinking that G-d wants to kill the aggressive nature in man. No indeed he doesn’t want him to kill it. He wants intelligence to (unclear) that wild animal, and guide it quite properly in the world. Make it serve society, and if a beast comes up that doesn’t have a man riding him, then turn your animal a loose against that beast. This is what G-d wants. G-d didn’t want a world of spiritual sheep, a world of invisible beings. He want intelligence to rule the beast for the good of the society. Some of you, I just should have spoke to you and went back. You don’t deserve any guidance.

Alright now, let’s continue on this. So the rains came, but the people weren’t prepared for the rain. The rains wouldn’t soak into the earth. The water wouldn’t take its proper place in the boundary set for water, because there was no reception in the world in those days for the revelation, or the truth that G-d was raining down from his messengers on the society. So instead of going into society and filling the boundaries that naturally are cut out for that king of guidance, that kind of truth, it just began to pile up. The earth of that society, of that human society was so hard that the water couldn’t soak into it. Are you following the language? So water began to go up. The book says the water began to rise up on the earth. It didn’t go in, it didn’t reach home. So it just began to rise up on the earth. There are people like that right now. They go to church, and the preacher preaches, they go to church sometimes five days a week. The preacher preaches, and all of that good water goes on them, and they just shout, and carry on, but when they go outside the church we don’t see a believer, we see devil walking around in the society. A liar, a self-righteous little dog. So the water didn’t soak in, it drowned that dog. Killed its life so that he couldn’t even see that it had been drowned. Know the scripture, they can quote it like, - you’d think they were preachers. 

I’m talking about self-righteous people in the church, and in the synagogues and mosques too, - can quote you the scripture just like preachers; rabbis and imams, talk Christ all day and all night, but they have no sympathy in their hearts, no feelings for each other, always trying to out do the other one. Always trying to prove their superiority over the others. See the world as nothing but a world of corruption and sin, - can’t see goodness anywhere. See all of the faults in everybody, but don’t see their self-righteousness, that it is nothing but the darkness of Satan’s ignorance and sin. They think they are pure angels of light, but their light is the light of falsehood and wickedness. They’ve been drowned by the scripture, because their was no true reception in them for their truth. It didn’t sink in, it just drowned them. So the book says, in the day of Noah; were are giving you this to show you the history of Jacob,- Yacub. In the day of Noah that water rose, and rose, and rose until it covered even the mountain tops. Is that right? What does that mean? It means that the government, the leaders of the society became hard and couldn’t receive the truth, so it just piled up over them, and drowned them. Reached up to the very highest government in that world and drowned every society, every leadership in that day and time. 

Now when they were drowned they were dead, they were killed, but now the death that they died was a new kind of death. You see? It’s the death of hypocrisy, the death of self-righteousness, that’s the kind of death that the world died in the days of Noah. They didn’t die physically. They didn’t die as a religious people. They didn’t lose their religious identity, that’s what I mean. They kept their religious identity, but they lost their religious essence, their true religious essence, substance; they lost it. They lost it because as the divine truth or knowledge came to them it didn’t increase a reflection in them, instead it hardened them more. A person who is selfish, a person who wants to be above everybody else. The more knowledge that you give them, the more they grow in their selfish image. Do you understand? So this is what is meant; that this world, - the more the rains came the harder they grew. The less reception that they had in them for it, and it just piled up upon the earth and drowned them, everybody even the leadership, even the government. Mountain means government. Mountain means material government. So this means that even the material government, those people who had rational knowledge, business knowledge they were overcome too by this flood of false spirituality. I hope you are following, If you’re not maybe we can have a couple of minutes to answer questions after I’m finished. 

So they were killed, drowned. They died as lively economic societies. They died as a true religious society, in fact they were already dead. When Noah came they were already dead. They were selfish people who thought that their society was going to sustain them forever. They thought that their material accomplishments and their knowledge will sustain them forever, but Noah being wise knew that it wasn’t going to sustain them forever. So they didn’t come out of that mind into the right mind. They were a people who were falsely born from the beginning. So when the truth came it didn’t make them come out of that mind into righteousness, or into truth. It made them grow into another kind of disease form. Instead of being materialistic evil, they turned out to be spiritually evil. Do you understand? The truth didn’t go on, they resisted it and accepted only a outer show of righteousness. 

Well it’s plain if you just listen. So the book says that as it was in the day of Noah so shall it be in the day of the coming of the Son of Man. So if we are to take this to be a correct prophesy then we are to expect that in the end of the world there will be another day like that. There will be a day when there will be a Noah saying prepare yourself for a terrible day that is coming. And there will be a society that will be materialistic, and they won’t be able to naturally respond to spiritual truths. Instead of it making them righteous and human, taking them out of their darkness and spiritual, material darkness, and bringing them into righteousness and human balance, it will just drown them, and make them become all spiritual with a false self righteousness. You see? I guess the book is correct, and the book is correct. Why? Because the mastermind has been doing his thing. The mastermind has brought on everything that he predicted 6,000 years ago that he would bring on. Not G-d the true god, god Satan. God the devil. 

Aright let’s get back to Jacob now for a few minutes here. I don’t want you to leave Jacob while I’m going on with Noah.  Jacob according to the Bible gets  his start by using tricks on his brother Esau. His mother, meaning the society that he lived in, the society that he identified with, the society that gave birth to him. Jacob is a mind. This mind is first seen in the Bible in Genesis under the description of serpent. In Genesis we read that the serpent was the most subtle of all the creatures in the wilderness, or in the garden. Subtle means deceitful. Subtle means that it’s not readily detected. You have to look very close to see it. That’s what subtle means. That mind that is devious cunning and wise, you have to look very close to see its pattern, its design, its scheme. This is the serpent of Genesis. This serpent grows bigger as we progress through the book from Genesis to Revelations. In Jacob, this serpent comes in to a new thing, of the plan to gain control or mastery over the world. Before he was just dealing in the worlds light. He was tricking people under the world’s light. 

Cain killed his brother out in the open. Is that right? And (unclear), and theft, and destruction continued, but it continued out in the open. But when Jacob came to birth the deceitful wicked work went under ground. He hid himself in another people. That people is the religious people. Go back and study the book. It says Jacob’s mother taught him how to deceive his father and get control over his father’s house. His mother told him, go out and get the skin of an animal, and put it over your exposed father so that when you father touches you, he will think that he’s feeling your brother. Now see the Bible is so mixed up, it’s so subtlety put together that it takes a genius, or a divinely guided person to follow all of these subtle traps that the snake made, but strain your rusty locks; I’m putting oil on them, just strain them it will move a little bit. Hair in the book stands for knowledge. The Bible says that the father of Jacob had grown senile. It doesn’t say senile, it says old, weak, feeble, but it means senile. Feeble and senile. This is referring to the religious society, that there was once a strong religious society, but in time because of the absence of strong leadership it grew weak, and forgetful like an old weak and senile person. And it was in this time of the weakness of the religious society that this particular society of people that wanted to take over the world and rule it as G-d under the name Jacob or Yacub came to the religious society with the help of the dollar minded society, that’s the mother of Jacob; the dollar minded society. With the help of the dollar minded society this young devil got in the position of authority.

The mother was wise. The mother knew that the power of the society was in that society’s knowledge. You’ve heard of Samson and Delilah cutting his hair. Alright. It says that Samson had seven locks. Seven locks of hair means seven bodies of knowledge, and Delilah, the wicked woman; not you sister, the wicked society. You see society acts as a woman. Society gives birth to members of the society. At first a child is with his mother, and once he’s put out into the world he becomes the child of society. Is that right? Alright, we’ll keep going. So here we have hair in the book as the symbol representing knowledge. Samson; son is spelled “s. o. n.”, but really it means, s. u. n.” The physical sun is the light that lights our physical world and the rays from the physical light was pictured as strings, or lines going out, and even today we still follow that tradition of drawing the sun with lines going out. Is that right? When you look at an ancient man in those days and time his head was full of hair, all around. The top, the side, underneath everywhere was hair. So they saw the hair of the head as knowledge, and the power of knowledge is light for the ignorant mind. Is that right? So they used the hair to describe the rays of knowledge that goes out from a man’s mind like rays of lights going out from a physical sun.

So Samson is called Sam – sun. He was originally just called Sam, because alone it means sun, but when they translated it they wanted to leave a clue there for their people. They said Samson because the Semitic language was new, and strange to the European. So they had to say, “son” again, but they put a trick there so that the ignorant, those that are to stay our of their knowledge won’t see it. They spell it, “s.o.n.”. And when they say the son of man is coming they say, “s.o.n.” that’s for the ignorant. We think it means the physical boy, or male child of a man or of G-d. 

What it really means is “s.u.n.” Sun means a body of light, - that is a knowledge body of light. A divine body of light that will light your human light like the physical sun lights your physical light. And that body of knowledge is the sun of man. Man means divine mind. That light will be the sun or will be in the direct line of the prophets. The prophets were given the divine mind by  Almighty G-d. That light will be the light of the prophets. That’s all it means. The sun of man. Okay let’s continue now. So Jacob took over the religious society. He wasn’t religious, not in the sense that they were religious. He was religious in the sense that Satan is religious. And the religion of Satan is to prove his charge against man to G-d. Satan told G-d that man is not fit to rule the world. What do we mean by man? We mean spiritual mind. Satan told G-d that spiritual mind is not fit to rule the world. The mind must be rational mind. “G-d, I’ve been around here ruling the world for all of this time. Haven’t I’ve satisfied you? I’ve been ruling the world with the power of rational truth. And I’ve been religious. I’m an angel, I’m spiritual.” Don’t we find that same kind of religious people around, the same kind of religious leadership around today?

Religious leadership and religious people who think that they are good Christians, good Jews, good Muslims, but think that it’s stupid of us if we take G-d serious as a spiritual being ruling the  heavens and the earth. They think that you should follow rational knowledge. Put G-d in His place, and Satan in his place. They say G-d is okay when you go to church. I’m talking about people who truly claim to believe in G-d. They say G-d is okay in the church, in the mosque, in the synagogue, but when you come out here in this world, pick up Satan, meaning the power of intelligence, - rational knowledge. They say, man don’t let your religion interfere with your business. Alright so this is what the book is talking about. This devil, or this Satan he was of that mind, he was the father of that mind that feels that I am more knowledgeable than the spiritual person. So I shouldn’t follow a spiritual person. I should teach spiritual people how to live. I should be the leader of spiritual people. Spirit is now before the fire of intelligence. You see the book says that Ibis, he was created before. He was before the man. That angel of light that became Satan was before G-d made the man. Is that right? Okay, so he says I am before, I’m earlier. I am the oldest. Why should I bow down to this spirit? They have no faith in the clean, divine power to manifest superiority in a human being. They think that your superiority is beneath their superiority.

The pope rules not because he’s more righteous, than anybody else in the Christian world. The pope rules because he’s more knowledgeable than anybody else in the Christian world according to their judgment. Is that right? They judged him to be more knowledgeable than anybody else. Not that he’s more righteous. That kind of knowledge that’s fit to rule over the world is a knowledge that is born with righteousness. A man who is divinely qualified to be a leader in the world must also be qualified because of his righteousness. G-d is not going to give that kind of secret knowledge to person who is filthy or polluted in his moral nature, or in his spiritual nature. He has to be clean, then 
G-d will give him that power. So this kind of  mind in the world that doesn’t have faith in human beings goodness, righteousness, spiritual nature, divinely given spiritual nature, that mind that doesn’t have faith in that, – that, that will give or bring about or grow a superior rule, or superior mind, - that’s the Satan. That mind that doesn’t have faith that G-d can bring his man to the top of the world by a different route than that, that you took. That’s Satan. Satan thinks that you must go to his school, and if you don’t go to his school he won’t listen to you, he won’t respect you. But G-d says, my man doesn’t have to go to your school Satan. Satan says, yes he does. He says, okay G-d since you say your man doesn’t have to go to my school, I’m going to show you that your man should go to my school.

He says, you made me the leaders (unclear), and you’re making a mistake now. You should have left me the leader. Since you’ve decided upon making this man the leader in the earth, then okay, but I’m going to prove to you that he’s not fit. Satan says in the language of the Holy Qur’an, and it’s in the Bible too, another language, it says that I’m going to come up to your man from behind him. And I’m going to come to your man from before his face. It says I’m going to come to your man from his left side, and from his right side. He says when I’m finished with him you won’t find but a few that is worthy. So Satan challenged G-d in the allegorical language of the Holy Qur’an. He challenged G-d saying that, - You’re saying that a spiritually inspired man should lead the world. I’m going to prove that you are wrong. I believe in you G-d, I pray, I believe in truth and righteousness, I admire you heroes the prophets, but I ain’t going to let no prophet rule me in the society. So he says, I’m going to come from before them, - in their face, from behind means that he will hide his evil scheme against you. Come before your face means he will let you see that I don’t mean you no good. Then he will come from your left, meaning that he will pull you down by the force of your own weaknesses. He’ll feed your weaknesses, and pull you down. Come to your right, - he’ll pretend to be building up your strength. “Yeah, I admire you’re a good fella” And he’ll build you up on your right side until you get faith in him, until you start believing in  him, and once you go to sleep and your eyes close, then he’ll inject you with the poison of Jacob. 

So this is what Satan said to G-d when G-d told the world that My plan is to put the leadership over the world that is righteous and spiritually moved and dominated. Don’t you know that a man or woman can’t even come into spiritual understanding until they first give up faith in their knowledge? As long as you think that your knowledge alone can save you, you’ll never be given the supreme knowledge, that divine truth. See that was the mistake of Satan. Satan followed G-d, but he always applied his own intelligence. And when he couldn’t apply his own intelligence he just let it go. He said, well if I can’t figure it out, then I don’t want it. That was his mistake. Instead of saying 
G-d you’ve shown me much that my intelligence, my rational mind can see. So I’m going to have faith in you that, that that I can’t see is also good for me. If Satan had done that Satan would have been transformed into a true angel of light, but he didn’t do that. He never did it, so the Jacobite, that society that wants to usurp authority form G-d. That mind in the world that wants to take over the leadership of the world, and rule it from behind the screen of religious and holiness, - it said to G-d, I’m going to prove to you that your man is not worthwhile. Now look what he did. He went and took the prophets and their messages and rewrote the messages. …

(End of tape side)

…and just like Yacub got his idea together and used predictions to bring about his plan I’ve got my ideas together and I’m going to predict something about my plan. I’m going to predict that this baby is going to be a boy. If it be a girl, hell the way I’ve been teaching them I can easily interpret it. It will still look like a boy to them after I’ve explained it. But if it’s a boy look at how powerful my plan will be. And it was a boy, that was me, and he said name him after me. Say he will grow up in this (unclear). That’s what he told the parents. Saying he will follow his father and take over his father’s work. That’s what he told the parents. He said train him because he will be the next one, - now I was told this when I was a little boy. But the Hon. Elijah Muhammad in his grown up years he told the mother, - no successor after me. Is that right? He had to do that. But if people are looking at you getting old, and want to see you sit down, or want to put somebody else in your place. If you start pointing out successors, they’ll hurry up and get you in the ground. He was wise to say, no, - no successor this is the end of it. If you kill me, or hurry up my life, send me on to the grave, you’re going to have a problem. You can’t handle this and that. You better keep me around. Ain’t nobody coming behind me. 

Wise men like (unclear). Alright, get him at any cost he said. No matter what the price is. At any cost means tell a lie if you have to. Trick them if you have to. Well that’s what he preached. He told his ministers, get these people into this temple at any cost. That was the philosophy of Master Fard. You know they ask me in these interviews, what is the philosophy? I can’t tell you what the philosophy is before the public, man. Things like this aught to be told in privacy, and let it (unclear section).. out in the public. Though he named me, gave me his name, and said that I would be a successor, succeed my father. Alright, he said he will be a great helper to you, and he also told my mother that I was to succeed my father. He didn’t tell my father this, but he told my mother, and my mother told me, and it was just understood in the family that I would be the next one. Now here’s my brother Emanuel now the oldest one. Did you ever think that anybody else would succeed except me? No, I mean and I didn’t even know. Believe me (unclear) how come you didn’t know? When a child is growing up, he doesn’t take these things seriously unless he’s really old in the mind while he’s still young, you see. Well I wasn’t old in the mind when I was young. I was a normal teenager. Out there be bopping and doing the ballroom strut. Beantown, the pimp they used to call it. Some of you old folks in here might remember “the pimp” do you remember those days? Beantown and the pimp? Up there on 47th street. Where I was up there gliding around on the floor with my bad buck skin jacket and silk white shirt. Didn’t have no money, but I had enough to get that, just for that one occasion to impress those young girls you know. Oh man, I was smooth.

I wasn’t paying any attention to the predictions, you know. They were just predictions to me just like everything else in the lessons. And really I couldn’t see nothing that great in me, so I just passed it on by. I said well they just think, - it was just a good name for a son, you know I just thought that they gave me a name. I was happy to know. Somebody had to be named after Master Fard. My brother, - Chief Captain Elijah Muhammad was named after Elijah Muhammad the father. So I said, well the next one named after Master Fard, the founder. My father (unclear) just being handled like that. I never took it too seriously although I was told it in a serious way. And believe me my mother was dead serious. When she talked about me, her whole expression changed. She didn’t play man. She was serious. She really took care of me. She was beautiful. She did the best she could for me until she passed. And I thank Allah for her, she’s a great woman. 

Master Fard he knew that by giving me the name it would be a living (unclear) in the house of the leader working on the family, making the family give this child a special respect, a special kind of respect, and they did. Even as a child they didn’t treat me like they did each other. They treated me as special. So I grew up and finally I came into the ministry, - it was predicted. The prediction was working in my mind. I wanted to be a leader, - less. I’m ashamed to tell you some of the things that I wanted to be. I used to think I could sing, turn the bathtub water on real hard to drown out the flaws in my voice, man I thought I was really singing, you know. Picturing myself on the radio, there wasn’t no TV back there in those days. There were some other things too that I won’t mention they were (unclear). But I had other desires, I wanted to be an electronics man. I even asked my father and in fact got into, - had a man come over from the, I think it was called Devry, School of Electronics, came over; we were living on 61st and Michigan 6116 South Michigan. The man came over and talked to me. When the man started talking I saw that my father was just jiving me. I believed him until that man started talking, and I saw that he was listening, but wasn’t acting. He start coming up with every excuse, “Well, I’m thinking about this son. You know pretty soon you’re going to be draft age before you can complete the course, they are going to draft you.” So right away I knew that he wasn’t really going to make that choice. I said well maybe it’s about the money, its short or something I don’t know what the problem is, but I ain’t going to bother him. So I told him okay daddy. Another thing about me, I wasn’t one to just contend with you. If you just say something or if I sensed that you’ve decided, - that’s the end of it. I ain’t going to keep bothering you. 

That’s another problem that we have, all people have this problem, but we as Bilalians we got it worse than any people on the face of the earth. We just can’t come to a conclusion. Just nag the hell out of each other. Just squabble and complain and question and question. Well what did you do yesterday? Well what did you do last year? Well do you remember fifty years ago what you did? Explain that. Yeah, okay you explained that, but what about what your grandfather did? And man we will stay on this until the grave is given up. Alright so I didn’t go into electronics. I went to Dunbar High School, night school for a little while, I took radio. But I didn’t get into my course that I wanted. Finally I got into the ministry. Do you know how I got into the ministry? A friend of mine. I was so shy. Have you ever seen these shy boys that think they look good, but don’t want to admit it, you know. They never want to admit to themselves that, “I think that I look good”. In their own mind they’re saying, “I don’t think I look good”, but they really think they look good, you know. Well I was that kind of child, teenager. And really I couldn’t backup anything. If a girl really responded quick to what I was putting down, oh man, I’d just go into cold sweats. I was so shy, but as long as she was running I was bold man. “Hey girl what’s the matter with you, come here”. But you let her start coming, if she came I’m telling you I’d start breaking out in a cold sweat. 

So It was hard for me to come up before the people and speak. I was shy of the audience. One night, Wednesday night, every Wednesday night the minister, Minister James, where is Minister James? There he is, Minister James over there, and he looks as young as he did then almost too. He looks almost as young as he did back then. Leroy went up, and Leroy told me I was going up tonight man, I’m going up to talk, I’m going to speak tonight. Everybody could get a chance to get up and talk, and if you were good most likely he would use you more, and pretty soon you are on the roster, you know. Leroy went up and talked, and he did it so easy, it looked like he wasn’t having any problem. I said I’m not going to let this chump do this to me. I’m not going to have him looking at me and worrying, because he was one of those Bilalians who will worry you to death. Never get off the subject. I knew that he would be bothering me from now on, - until I did go up he was going to aggravate me. I’m not going to have this, so I’m going to show him. And really I had to force myself. My legs were getting dead on me. You know what fear can do to you. My legs felt like they had started dieing on me, you know. It shows you that mind is over matter, ain’t it?

There was nothing wrong with my legs, I could have got up there and be-bopped or anything else, but to get up there and talk to the people, those legs looked like they started dieing on me. Hands started feeling funny. Blood all stiff in my hands, - good G-d Almighty. I finally made it up there all stiff and funny looking. But something happened that night. Almighty G-d Allah showed me that there was something for me to talk about, and I told them, first time I ever talked, - I told them, “I see you all got it all wrong”. That was way back then when I was a teenager. I think I was about nineteen years old, brother minister how old was I about nineteen? Maybe about eighteen or nineteen when I started to teach I think. That’s right. I told them, I said that you all got it all wrong. And I saw that it was a big problem. I saw that we were too hung up on the devil. That we were losing too much of our valuable energy in the devil. Not that I loved them. I was out there punching them in the nose when I got a chance. That’s right. You know when Emmett Till got killed? I’m telling you, I sure put a hurting on a few of those Caucasians. That’s right, and not with my hands. I used some bricks, and I put a hurting on a few of those Caucasians in those days. But I was that, - see as I told you I was kind of a new person, and I saw that we were putting too much of our energies into this talk on the Caucasian, the white man being the devil. Every minister that got up, his thing was to show you that the white man is (unclear) .. nothing to do with him, that he is the devil. Well that’s good. It doesn’t take your whole life to do that. After you showed them the devil then do something about guiding them toward G-d. But I couldn’t see that we were doing enough about getting our people to turn to Allah. That was my mission that I stepped in to, and still on it the same mission.

Okay lets keep on with this now. You see how the idea when it was predicted how it did move me to come into the ministry. It finally worked, and brought me right into the ministry. How long did it take him to make devils? Six hundred years. He was grafting devils, or making him from the black man. What year was that? It was in the year 8,400. Which means from the date of our present history or Qur’an, or about 2,600 years before the birth of prophet Moses, of Musa. Musa is given in the lesson. What was the name of the place where he manufactured the devil? Answer Pelon, the same that is called Patmos in the Revelation, chapter one verse nine. Why is he now tying this teaching in with the Revelation? So that we won’t work just with his lesson, but work also with the Bible. Do you see this here? Okay, because the Bible is a key, one of the keys that is necessary for us to see. Exactly what does he mean by all of these terms that he uses in the lessons. Pelon and Patmos. Now where is Pelon or Patmos in the earth? A map, old map of the old world will show you Pelon in what came to be the Greek world. Where did Christianity get its start? You may say in Jerusalem, - no it didn’t. Jesus said that he was rejected by his own. It didn’t get its start in Jerusalem, - a few people heard  him and listened to him, but his own disciples when he was accused and brought before Pilate, they denied him. The twelve disciples. Who sat at the table. When Jesus was finally accused and brought before the court to be tried his own disciples turned their back on him. Peter was the one that the church now points to as the founder of the church after Jesus. Jesus founded, they claimed that he founded it, but Peter established it, is that right?

That Peter that they traced their  history back to, that disciple of Jesus, when he was questioned he told the people that he didn’t know. Told the guard, “I don’t know him”. Is that right? This is the Bible. Now I know that this scripture, Bible tells us that later on he changed, and he really began to fight hard for Christ, and the church. But what did he do when Jesus was facing the mighty test? When he was really needed, when his faith was really needed, he turned his back, is that right? Alright, if one of us would turn our back on our leader when he was really before the crucial test, how many of us would later accept it? But you see your mind is not natural. The mind of the Christian in western society is unnatural. You accept anything that’s in the Bible. Just because it’s in the Bible you accept it. You read in the Bible that a donkey preaches a sermon and converted a thousand souls. Or that a mule played chess with a wise man and defeated him. You’d believe it because it was in the Bible. “Yeah man, what are you talking about. That mule did play chess and beat that wise man, - it’s in the Bible man I’ll show it to you right here man. You see this nigga? Don’t tell me it didn’t happen. You can see it right here.” Now maybe you haven’t run in to people like that, but I have. On the job I’ve ran into black folks that argue about things in the Bible that they don’t have a bit of knowledge of. They ask a question knowing that if nobody knows what’s in the Bible they’re going to say, no man it can’t be. You believe so-in-so man? No man, (unclear) .. okay nigga you never (unclear) show me it’s right. Here in the Bible man it says right here, - see. Man, I didn’t know that was in the Bible.

But he ain’t going to argue with it. Only a few of us, every now and then you run into one who says, I don’t care what’s in the Bible. It’s a new generation now. I’m not talking about this new generation. Even this new generation, most of them out there, go to them. You tell them it’s in the Bible, they don’t argue with you. That’s why we use the Bible so much over here. Because Black folks were trained not to argue with the Bible. So he tied the story in with the Revelation to show us where the connection is. Now if you want to understand Master Fard’s teachings you have to go to the Bible, because his teachings came out of the Bible. Only a small portions of his teachings came straight from the Qur’an. Most of his teachings came straight from the Bible. Was he a Muslim or Christian? A Muslim. And a very, very good Muslim. But he saw that our problem was the Bible problem, and we were so wrapped up in the spiritual teachings of the church, that we couldn’t open our ears, our eyes to seek nothing from another religion. So he came to us in the guise or in the dress that we understood and accepted. The first makes friends with us and then later introduces to you what is under the dress, the real person. 

Alright, it’s getting late, but we aren’t going to worry about it. So Pelon or Patmos is in the land of the heathen as it is called in the Bible. It was then heather land. That heathen land was the land that became Christian land. Read the Episcopal of Paul and the teachings of Peter, or the New Testament and you’ll see that their preaching went out of Jerusalem and went into the land of the Gentile. The first church might have been in Jerusalem, but Christianity got its start in the land of the Gentile. In fact we don’t even know of any such house, religious house established by Jesus, or by his original disciples called church. This came later, and it was Paul who did it for the most part. So they preached to the Greeks and the Romans, and Christianity was established among the Greeks and the Romans. So where did they produce their church? Where did they bring their society into form? It was on the isle of Pelon. It was in that house. We thought that was way back there before Moses, but that brother and sister happened, the grafting of the Gentile, the grafting that Master Fard is talking about is not a grafting that happened back there before Moses. It’s a grafting that happened among the Gentile. You understand? 

Okay, but he was not wrong in using the Yacub, and in giving his history as the 6,000 year history. Why? Because this kind of grafting had already been done before. It hadn’t been done on the Gentile as a world of Gentile, but it had been done on people that did not belong to Yacub, by Yacub. Now we’re going to get into that, but let’s keep going. As I described Cain and his generation as a baby Satan. Yacub in the early history of that 6,000 years was a baby Yacub. The great Yacub, the popular Yacub was that one who grafted his man among the Greeks, and he began his teachings in the holy land. Am I talking about Jesus? I’m talking about those who stole Jesus’ truth and twisted it into an instrument of the devil to build a kingdom for Satan. Let’s keep going. I don’t know how you’re taking this, but I don’t want to hurt your feelings, but I got to tell you the truth. Don’t worry I’m a well trained physician. I know not to just go on and operate before cleaning the wounds, putting a little deadening on the wound. It takes me a long time before I cut down into the quick. 

Alright now, so we’ve identified Pelon and Patmos now. Now let us go and read the next question here, it says (question two); tell us the mental and physical power of a real devil. Answer; the mental power of a real devil is nothing in comparison to the original man. He only had six ounces of brain. But now remember here we are not talking about physical brain. We’re talking about mental power. We being ignorant, made ignorant by this world; we thought Master Fard was talking about the physical brain, and there were some brothers who wished they could find a dead Caucasian body laying around somewhere, and when nobody is looking they were going to cut his head open and get that brain and weight it to see if Master Fard was right, you see. But he wasn’t talking about the physical weight of the physical brain. He was talking about mental power, - mental power. How much power can a man have mentally. A man can have no more power mentally then he has knowledge. The knowledge he has is what gives him mental power. If his knowledge is corrupt knowledge, weak and corrupt knowledge then his power is going to be weak and corrupt. Is that right? Alright. If his knowledge is by nature physically based; understand what I’m saying, If his knowledge by nature by, if that knowledge, the composition of that knowledge is physically based it gravitates in the physical world. He supports it with physical terminology. Then that mental power is no more than the mental power of physical things.

Now we have thought of the Christian world as a spiritual world haven’t we. But let me tell you something. We have been wrong. This world is an artificial spiritual world, it’s not a true spiritual world. America has been an artificial spiritual world. Real spirituality hasn’t been in America. I’m talking about in America as a whole. There have been individuals who have been spiritual, but America as a nation, America as a society, the Bilalian community as a community, the Greek community or the Irish community, or the Italian community as a community, these communities haven’t been spiritual communities. They have been artificially spiritual. Now isn’t the proof in the eating of the pudding? If this was a real spiritual society then we would see more spiritual manifestations in this society then we do physical manifestations. Has this society had a history of treating each other as spiritual people? They have had a history of treating each other as physical objects. They would burn a black man just as easy as they would burn a piece of dead wood. Is that right? Alright, sex, - all sex. Nothing but sex. Woman’s body, men’s body. Is that right? (unclear).. sitting down at the table with all of his genius, with his degrees wondering how he’s going to rob you of your community tomorrow. How he’s going to rob you of your rights to your community tomorrow. I’m talking about the history of America, Christian America.

Violence, physical sins and corruption, sex. These are the things that have killed the society of the world of America. Am I right or am I wrong? So if America was really a true spiritual people we wouldn’t see the manifestations of spiritual lust and greed, and materialism here in the atmosphere and dominating everything else in this so-called world of righteousness, or Christian. That’s why Jehovah Witnesses and many other Christian groups, - they don’t even identify themselves with the world of Christian people. They say there is Christendom (doom) and there is Christian. We don’t belong to Christendom, we belong to Christian. Told you that even Christian people got so (unclear) their world that they didn’t even want to identify with it. Called their world Christendom (doom). We are the Christians. And believe me those Jehovah Witnesses are kind of slick and cunning like Master Fard. That “dom” at the end of their name means just what it says. They don’t mean Christian dome. They mean Christian doom. They meant that fake world of Christianity that’s doomed. And they see themselves as the true Christians; Jehovah Witnesses. And their other small bodies of religious people, Christian people who think the same way. They think for the majority of Christians are too (unclear), and that only a small number are really Christian. And when you look at the works out here in the society you have to admit that there is a lot of truth to what they say. So he was not talking about the physical brain, he’s talking about the mental power, and mental power does not come from physical (unclear). Mental power comes from knowledge. You understand. Your head may be a size eight. That doesn’t mean that you are going to be wise. You may be the biggest fool in your class. But if you have the knowledge that’s what counts. And your knowledge can only grow as big as the world that your mind is put in to feed on. Does that make sense?

I don’t care how strong your brain is, how much potential is in that brain, as long as that brain has no other environment to grow in than the one that is before it; the world, and it feeds on that environment it can not grow any bigger than that environment. The only way that man’s mind can grow bigger than that environment; it has to come in touch with another world, with another world of ideas, and begin feeding on a new world. Then it can grow bigger than the old world that once contained it. Does that make sense? I hope it does because it’s very important in you mind to think that way. Some of you don’t want to leave the small world that you’re in. You’re keeping your mind at a standstill. “Tell us the exact date of the expiration of the devil’s civilization”. Now he didn’t (unclear) make no guess at it. Tell us the “exact” date of the expiration of the devil’s civilization. Because here is something else that was very important for you to accept and believe. It’s very important that you believe, those who he was teaching. Bringing together to build this new world. It was very important that they believed as fact the doom of this world. So he says in the answer, a very short answer again using the power in his wisdom to get the results he wanted. He asked the question as though the very date is known. Then he gives an answer right to the point in the fewest words to make it seem more convincing. 

If he had given a long answer that will give you time to forget about the,.. What do you call it, when you condition the mind for something?  The preconditioning (unclear) if he gives a long answer. But if he gives a short answer the preconditioning is still there working you see. So he used the preconditioning and then he gives a short answer so that you get the answer while the condition is still there strong on your mind. “Expires in 1914” that’s all. No big sentence. Expired in 1914 that’s (unclear). So we who were there in the 1930’s, oh we felt great man. This world, this Caucasian American time is up man. Hey brother come on to the temple. Don’t you know that America’s day is over? Say man America’s day that time to rule the world was up in 1914. I’m telling you what you would hear in the street of Detroit and Chicago in the early 30’s. From many brothers who are right around here now who went out there in the street and did that. My brother, he’s old enough he said he was one of them and he was. And there’s another one, my uncle John back there he was one of them too. He told them that the time of this world was up. Right?

That they’re just hanging around on our time. The earth belongs to the Black man. This is what it took to get the best material in. See the best material for this new world wasn’t the kind of people who would question this. The kind of people who would question this was the material of the old world. But those who were rejected, were total outcast, found no place in the  old world. They couldn’t find any place in the schools of America. They couldn’t find any place in the business society of America, in the elite society, not even in the church did the first followers have any real place. They were just common out of doors Black people. They didn’t have a place with anybody. They were just working from day to day. They believed though. They didn’t have enough money to dress up and go to no church. Most of them didn’t go to church. It wasn’t because they weren’t Christian. It was because they didn’t have enough money to dress descent enough to go to church, because you know that Black people don’t believe in going to church looking raggedy and ugly and poor. Right? Alright, so the best material for building Master Fard’s new world came to him. They were the right ones for him. They were more ready to grab the bait, because they didn’t have anyplace in the world. They had nothing to defend. The man who has a place in the education of the world he has something to defend. The man who has a place in the entertainment world, he has something to defend.

But the first followers that Master Fard got, they had nothing brothers and sisters. Very few of them had a little education. And those few maybe one out of many thousands would accept, who had a little education. They were use to teach the others, penmanship, arithmetic, most of the followers didn’t know how to write. They had to be taught how to write. So they were taught penmanship, and arithmetic, and simple reading. But along with that they were getting the most powerful message, or teaching that any social reformer on the ordinary level had ever come up with. That was the teachings of Master W.F. Muhammad. Now let’s keep moving, I told you, you were going to be here for awhile so, I know you’re tired, but I have to keep on. And some things you can’t rush brothers and sisters. If you rush you leave a job half done. Some things have to soak in. You can’t just pour the water over it. We don’t do like they do in church, dip you down one, two, three, and you’re saved. We dip you down three times alright, but that’s over a long period of time. 

(W. Fard Muhammad’s teachings), “And can you reform devils?” “Answer: no.” “All the prophets have tried to reform him, but were unable.” It didn’t say all the prophets have tried to reform, - them. All the prophets have tried to reform, - him, but were unable. So they had agreed that it can not be done unless we graft him; it didn’t say graft, them, unless we graft him back to the original man, which takes 600 years. So instead of losing time grafting him back they had decided to take him off the planet. Alright now, who is this, - him? Why is he speaking of him in the singular? Because here the real devil is identified. It’s not the individual bodies that’s walking around, it’s that mentality, that grafted mentality has to be killed, we can’t save it. We can’t reform it. To reform that mentality it takes 600 years. You have to graft him from the white, to the brown, and finally to the black. What does this mean? It means first you have to take him from the white mentality that he has. And it will take you a long time just to take him out of the white mentality. After you’ve taken him out of the white mentality then you’re going to have to bring him to the brown. You’re not finished yet. The browns also have a brown mentality. They think they’re better than the black.  …

(end of tape side)

…Is wise, this is wisdom. This man realized that this world is not just a white problem. The biggest problem we have is a white problem. But this white problem has affected everybody. And the black man is suffering the burdens of all. He is the lowest one bearing the burden of the whole world. The whites hate him because he’s not white, and the brown hate him because he’s not as white as they are. Isn’t that the truth? All brother, I can talk on that for six hours. I’m telling you I hate colored minded people. I could kill you, I’m telling you the truth. I hate a colored minded person. A colored minded person is the worse person on earth. There’s nothing more devil than a colored minded person. I’m telling you the truth. I tell you why. A colored minded person can’t see his own faults. He can’t see your worth, he can’t see his weakness. So what can you do with a person like that but kill him. Master Fard said I’m not going to try to reform these people. I’m going to kill them, but not kill them physically. The physical body is good. G-d made the physical body just like He made the tree (unclear). But it’s this new body now that’s in this physical body that is a body that G-d didn’t make. Yacub made it. Satan made it. Yes, Yacub is Satan. 

Satan is the father of the devil. Satan made this body, so Master Fard said I’m not going to be around here trying to convert it, I’m going to kill it. He could have set down and worried his mind trying to find some rational message to give to the colored minded or white minded people. But look how long it would have taken him to bring them out of grafted Caucasian mentality, or to kill the power of white supremacy. It would have taken generations. But he went home and hit the head of Satan. The one who was responsible for the Caucasian world being in this kind of mind. Alright, let’s move on. And Satan is no fool. I don’t want you to think that I’m talking about something from another world. The Satan I’m talking about, he’s more real than Yacub. Let’s keep going now. 

Now he begins to show us the works of the devil. “Tell us what the devil teaches the 85% of G-d being a righteous and unseen being existing everywhere”. Now, what is he doing? He is killing the old man so that he can make a new man from scratch. What is the power of the old man? It’s his belief in G-d. I’m talking about the black man, Bilalian people. Up here until recently, the vast majority of our people were ruled and dominated by the fear of G-d. Even today most of us are still dominated and ruled by the fear of G-d. We may curse, we may rob the bank, we may do every kind of devilish thing, but in most of us is the fear of G-d. The church put that in us with the help of, - through the white man, with the white man’s (unclear). The greatest fear in us was the fear of G-d. As a writer, a black writer who also was a PHD man, doctor, and he was also a preacher I believe in the church too. A doctor of religion, theology. He wrote a book called, “Black Bourgeoisie” His name was E. Franklin Frazier. He described the black community as a church dominated community. And he described the church as our only institution. He described the church as the only institution that black people had, and as a church dominated community. And it was a very accurate description that he gave of us. It’s true, very true. Now Master Fard knew that was in us, more so than anything else was the attachment to the church, to Christianity, and the fear of G-d and love for Jesus.

Now how can you separate people from this strong abnormal relationship that most of us had with Christianity and the church. We even accepted the god in the image of the very people that brought us over here and enslaved us and lynched us. The very people that we were asking justice from. We accepted a god in their image. So that shows you that something was very, - that religion, that spiritual teaching, that love for Christ, that identity with Christ; that’s really what it is. And when these doctors really get to studying our problem, religious problem, - the religious mentality or the Christian mentality of our people, they’re going to finally discover that really our connection with Christianity wasn’t a normal, natural connection. That really what we were doing was identifying with ourselves. We saw Jesus as ourselves, and our love for Jesus was not really the love for you who was born in Bethlehem, and who was crucified in Bethlehem or in Jerusalem. The love that we were pouring out to that image on the cross was not even Caucasian. It was not Jew. It didn’t have blonde hair, though we saw blonde hair. It didn’t have pale skin, though we saw pale skin. It didn’t have blue eyes though we were looking into blue eyes on that cross. Really what we were looking at was our self on the cross, and that’s why were so strongly attached to Christianity and the church.

We didn’t see Jesus in our subconscious, in our hidden eye, in the soul’s eye. We didn’t see Jesus as that man that they were telling us about. We saw Jesus as the whole black family of people. Rejected by his own. Sold by his own people to the enemy. Mistreated in a cruel way, set upon, tortured, his wealth and all of his descent clothes taken off of him, left him hanging for dead in rags on the cross and others have his garments. Is that right? This is what happened to Africa. They sold Africa to the enemy of Africa. And the Caucasian stripped Africa and me and you of all of the wealth, and all the wealth from history, and wealth from spirituality, and wealth of physical things that we had, - they stripped us of it, and hung us on the cross of Christianity and (unclear) laughed at us. Laughed at our crucifixion. And this is what our people saw in the soul, brother. All of the eyes couldn’t see it. Their mind couldn’t register it, but their soul knew that Christ is me, - you lying stinking white world. You lied. You didn’t crucify your own kind, you crucified me! So brother and sister we love Jesus. Love that Jesus that was registered in the physical eye, but that Jesus that was staring in the soul. All praise is due to Allah. 

Let’s keep going. The devil teaches the 85% that G-d is a spiritual G-d. A righteous and unseen being. You can’t see him until you die. And they know that once you die, you can’t come back to their world and tell them whether they lied or told the truth. This is what Master Fard is telling us in his letters back there in the early thirties. And isn’t that the truth? Now you might say, wasn’t Master Fard teaching out of the order of real religion? Yes he was, but he was no more out of order than the church was. In fact I would say he was much more in order than the church was. The church carried us to an extreme in a false spirituality, and caused us to neglect the human need in the real world. Caused us to suffer all kinds of losses without justice, and not complain. They say, well you got to be a good Christian. We’ll see Jesus on the other side, and all of this will be made up for. Isn’t that what our old families used to say? They talked it in their sermons brothers and sisters. Alright, so Master Fard said, I’m going to tear it down and then build it back up. So he tore down the religion so he could build it back up. He tore down things that were good, but those things were mixed up in with things that were no good. And they were so corrupt until it wasn’t worth picking out the good. Do you understand? You see something can become so rotten and corrupt that you look foolish picking out the good. Is that right? You’d throw everything out.

 Master Elijah Muhammad, in one of his major addresses in Washington, DC at the (unclear) arena he said, I’ll tell you what you should do, (talking to his people) take everything that they gave you, the Christian religion and everything, the Bible and everything, - put it all in a trash basket, and then use the trash basket to beat the hell out of their head. We didn’t understand what he was saying. What he meant was if you really see the evil in this Christianity that they have given you, and the evil in the so-called society that they have attached you to, you can get it and put it into one package then you can come back at them with the very thing that they gave you and beat the heads off of their bodies. I love Jesus as much as you do, maybe more. I believe I love him more, but I’m going to teach the truth.

Now I want to get on to the closing of this Yacub message here from this book, so I’m going to start scanning through it just (unclear) information a little bit so we can hurry it up cause we have to get into the final message here. We can’t leave without it. Now after explaining this first lesson on Yacub to Master Elijah Muhammad, Master Fard asked him a question. He said, - there’s one other important question I can see first before going on to this one. He said why did G-d make devils. So here we have G-d being charged with the making of the devil. Right? Although Yacub is not really G-d. Yacub is not G-d, he is the god of his own people. He’s the god of the wicked; Satan the god of the devil, but he’s not really the G-d, but here it says, why did G-d make devils? Because G-d though he doesn’t do it Himself if He permitted it to be done then we want to know why did G-d let it happen. Is that right? So the answer goes like this. Answer: You see he wasn’t too careful about protecting the image of G-d. Why did G-d make devils, - just right out like that. So in case G-d is still in you, he’s going to make you identify yourself. If some good Christians were out there when he asked this question they’d say, “Mr. Fard, I don’t think G-d made the devil. Then he would have known that, that was material that he couldn’t use. He couldn’t use anybody that asked questions. And you know it was just recently that you were allowed to ask questions. It’s okay if you ask for some information, but don’t question the teachings now. You’ll find yourself being walked out of the temple with somebody on each side. An angel on your left, and an angel on your right. And you’ll be swinging on those angels, your feet are hardly touching the ground, and they’ll speed you right out that door, and might throw you out there on the front steps like a dead piece of meat. 

Well that was the old world, lessons there to bring in the new. “Why did G-d make devils, answer: to show forth his power that He’s all wise and righteous that He could make a devil which is weak and wicked, and give the devil power to rule the earth for 6,000 years then destroy the devil in one day without falling victim to the devil’s civilization. Otherwise to show and prove that Allah is the G-d.” He made it a point here to put, - “the” before G-d. Is, “the G-d”. Always has been, always will be. Alright now, let’s take a quick look at this before going to our next question. So He made the devil to show forth His power. Though he didn’t make him directly He permitted him to be made, and he allowed this to become in to existence because it was part of His Divine plan. Do you understand? Now if He had already arranged, or prepared for this in His Divine plan, then you have to charge him don’t you. You have to charge G-d with the responsibility of the devil being in existence. I don’t think this is a hard idea to accept in religion. When you look at the physical world you have to accept that there are things out here that will kill you, and there are things out here that will cure you. And many of us die from those things out here that can kill you. Is that right? But can we say G-d is wicked? No, a little more wisdom will show us that without those things being in existence that hurt up, we wouldn’t grow in knowledge, and we wouldn’t appreciate those things that help us. So this is the wisdom of G-d and it takes wisdom to understand it.

And we never can understand all of G-d’s wisdom because we are not G-d. If we could understand all of His wisdom that means our capacity is as is big as His. Is that right? And that’s not so. Now he ask the question, (I had to get to this before going to the other notes), he ask the question, “Will you hope to live to see that the gods will take the devil into hell in a very near future?” The Honorable Elijah Muhammad answered this one. He said, “yes, I fast and pray Allah, in the name of His prophet W.D. Fard that I see the hereafter and Allah in His own good time takes the devil off our planet. Here’s a man that didn’t only hope for it he said he fasted too. All right. We’re thankful for that kind of man. “What will be your reward in regards to the destruction of the devil?” Answer:, “peace and happiness.” I will give all I have and all within my power, (this is what the Honorable Elijah Muhammad said) to see this day for which I had waited three-hundred and fifty-nine years.” Now you see the Honorable Elijah Muhammad speaking in the singular here, but he’s speaking for all of our people. He said that we had waited over here in America as slaves and as second-class citizens for a deliverer, for relief from the misery, and suffering. He said that he would give all in his power to see the day. He said this lesson number two was given by our  prophet W.D. Fard which contains forty questions answered by Elijah Muhammad, one of the lost-found in the wilderness of North America, February 20th 1934.

Now before completing this I want to skip about here a little bit and just pick out (unclear). Yacub did his work 6,000 years ago according to the lesson. He used 59,999 people with himself made 60,000. Alright, I’m showing you how this “6” is involved in this. The grafting took place over a period of 600 years. Yacub got started with the help of a minority, he didn’t have a majority with him. It says only 30% were with Yacub, 70% were not with him. In fact, we don’t even know if 30% were with him. 30% is the percentage of the dissatisfied. 30% were dissatisfied with the present world order that was existing in that time. Now out of that dissatisfied number he started his new world. Now remember the Honorable Elijah Muhammad said study (unclear) history because our own world, our own works is in there. So what is this telling us now; that to get a new world started, you don’t need an army. You don’t need great machinery. You only need an idea. One person with the right idea can start a new world. You don’t need the majority of the people on your side. You only need a small percentage of people on your side. Don’t go to the satisfied expecting to get help. If you want to build a new world the old world ain’t going to help you. Go to those that are dissatisfied with the old world order, and just don’t have the vision to get out of it. Go to them and appeal to them to come help you build your new world, and you will have material for your new world. Is that right?  So this teaching is an allegorical teaching, but it’s giving us the knowledge of science of society, of civilization. It shows us how society comes into being, and how civilization comes into being, and how worlds are tumbled and new worlds are established. 

Alright, let’s go on now. Now when you start your world don’t think that you’re going to have it free and easy. The old world order, they’re going to come down on you. Soon as they detect what you’re doing. As soon as they discovered what Yacub was doing the lesson says, that they rounded Yacub and his followers up. They brought them before the court. They put them in jail, but because they were so determined (unclear). So they said, look locking these people up ain’t doing no good. We lock them up and they keep on teaching this same old Yacub teaching. They said there’s no need of keeping them locked up. We’re going to have to exile them. So it says that the authority said, we got to go down and talk to Yacub. We see this is predicted in the history. I wish I had enough time to really talk to you all today. They said let’s go down and talk to this big-headed scientist. So they went and talked to him and they said, look we know who you are. You’re a trouble maker. He said it’s predicted in our history that occasionally such trouble makers will come up. He said we ain’t got enough jails to hold all of you, but as long as you’re going to hang around here; you’re going to be around here for 6,000 years. So we can’t jail all of you, so we’re going to exile you. Yacub, get your things together, we’re shipping you out to Pelon. So they rounded Yacub and his followers up just about half of them. So Yacub, he was in good shape out there. Nobody could defend his followers. (unclear section)…but there wasn’t anybody out there, but Yacub and his henchmen. Yacub said give me blood, you got to give blood. I hope you understand. So Yacub, though he was locked up in jail, out there on the island it says he didn’t make any jails. He said if you break my law, no jail; death. So he didn’t have trouble getting them to cooperate.

Those that didn’t really have the desire in them to see a new world strong enough to go 
through the hardship, they would be kept in check by the threat that Yacub kept before them constantly. He said look here, Arabian law is not out here. Ain’t no law out here, but ours. We are outcasts. What is Master Fard telling us? He’s telling us look, those who buy your teachings Elijah Muhammad, you have complete authority over them. The white man ain’t going to come to there aid. He hates them for joining you. You’ll be able to execute them if you want to. The white man ain’t going to do nothing about it. He don’t care nothing about niggas anyway. Now your niggas have joined something that’s going to work against him. So whatever you want to do with them, he’s going to let you do it. But he also taught us not to go to them with our problems. Is that right? He said you don’t carry your brother to the devil. So brother, you’re carrying 300 papers. (unclear) put a few knots around your head. Didn’t like that you probably got some knots around somewhere else. Throw you out, you go and complain. Have you ever seen a police come back here and say, you got to close this temple up because these people have complained that you all beat them up when they don’t cooperate with you?

They only break in the temples when they think we have a white man in the temple. That’s when they broke in, in New York when they thought we had a white man there. A white man was still there wasn’t he? They broke in New York, but they don’t break in the temple unless they’re breaking in to get some information that the government needs or to rescue one of their people. The temple can do whatever it wants to do to you; they ain’t coming in. That was yesterday, not today now. You carry on this foolishness today it won’t be the same, - I ain’t Yacub, man. But that was necessary to get the job done under the impossible conditions that were out there. You know it was impossible brother and sister for this to have been done unless there was something really out of the ordinary bringing it about.

 Alright, so out there on the island of Patmos, Yacub did his thing. If anybody complained, turn him over to the cremator. Let the cremator burn them up, and when they got through with you there won’t be no evidence. When they cremate you, you don’t have nothing but ashes left around. Cremate you, turn you into ashes and many of you will turn into ashes brother. You went to such extremes that you were cremated. Some he turned over to the cremator, others he stuck a needle in their brain. What that means it he kills the possibility for their minds to grow on their own. Stuck a needle in their brain so they couldn’t grow on their own, you have to wait until he gives you something for that mind to grow. (unclear section)…me and you together, and you’re reading right along with me, good. Alright it was those that didn’t need the needle, or didn’t need to be cremated, they were allowed to come into the crypt. Is that right? Won’t quit the order to get this devil made. Now Yacub’s devil, the world devil that we know today. The Caucasian wicked mentality in his world, that world that is ruled by that wicked mentality. But Master Fard built another devil. Now whether you like it or not I’m going to tell you the truth. Master Fard made another devil. This was a black devil. He made a black devil to kill the white devil. 

Now how do you fight fire if you don’t fight fire with fire? I’m just using the old adage or cliché that the world has given us. They says to fight fire with fire. Isn’t that what they say? (unclear section)…fight fire with fire. So Master Fard just gave them their own medicine. Say you got a white devil, I’m going to create a black devil, and teach you what it is to live with devils in your midst. Now look, you may say, oh but we weren’t wicked like they were. (unclear section). You hated your own kind, and you hated the enemy. I’m talking about Muslims. So-called Black Muslims, hating their other Black Muslim brothers and sisters. I remember you, don’t think I don’t. Walking around just because you were four of five shades blacker than the next brother. “Brother do you know Yacub (unclear)?” “Do you know who the original man is?” Never a pleasant face, never looked like a human being. Sucker looked like a dead bark off a tree all the time. Walking around; “I’m the god, I’m the god, - black man!” “Brother, when’s the last time you’ve been on a six week fast?” Walk right by his brother in the street, see that his brother needs his help. 

Act like he doesn’t see him to keep from giving him the greetings and (unclear section). I saw my so-called black (unclear). Going right next door to the sister or the brother, gets in his big pretty car and pull off just like he’s riding another pretty car, and he drives another pretty car. He knows that he’s going on public transportation. He’s going to be standing out there in the snow waiting on a bus or something. And he gets in his big pretty car and goes next door to her. And hear her calling up later. (unclear)… that’s brother so-in-so, or that’s sister so-in-so. They’re just getting in. A black devil. You try to be nice to each other, “all you all, stop acting like that.” “You’re weak, a bunch of sissies.” “All this old loving stuff.” “That why we can’t get know where, this is serious business.” “We’re building a nation, - nation time.” Black devils. “Muhammad Speaks, Muhammad Speaks, get your Muhammad Speaks, you better get it, the fire is coming.” “I bet you eat pig don’t you so-in-so.” “You better get this Muhammad Speaks (unclear section).” No love, no understanding. Nothing but a devil grafted mentality, but the black devil was a good tool to awake the conscience of the white devil. To see the extent of his wickedness. You know Caucasians never looked at themselves as having a terrible color problem until the Honorable Elijah Muhammad’s grafted (unclear section).. got popular with the black color problem. Then they began to see themselves; they said good G-d Almighty, oh, we have fired up this world. (unclear section)… and let’s do something about it. They said look here, good G-d Almighty look at ourselves in Elijah’s people. 

Elijah (unclear) as individuals that each and every one of you wasn’t the devil. Yes and as individuals each and every Caucasian people weren’t the devil either. Many of them were good, and loving, and kind, and helpful to us. Is that right? But as a majority they were the devil. And believe me as the majority you were the devil. You hadn’t come into enough power to do the big things that this devil did. But if you had lasted in that state, for 6,000 years, (unclear section)… everything that white supremacy did. That’s right. Well you’re surprised, but this is good for us. 

Now let’s look at this new grafted world now. Looking at it as a tool, a diabolic tool, an evil weapon. Don’t tell me it was right for you to treat your brothers and sisters like you treated them. For you to treat your Christian brothers and sisters like you treated them. Now I know how some of you treated your Christian relatives. You were evil, heartless people. I know how some of them treated you too. I’m not saying that they weren’t devils. They belonged to that devil world, but the whole world was made a devil. Drinking bean soup, eating black whole wheat bread, and then burn it black. Lying talking about I like black coffee, and just drinking black coffee, don’t want no white in it. “Oh brother, I take mine black”. “I didn’t know you liked black coffee?” “Yeah brother I never liked any cream in my coffee”. Take the rice and put turmeric in it. Turn the rice from white to yellow, and take it and put it in a frying pan and burn it black. Now you know this is the truth, you know. And sit up there and eat rice tasting like burnt popcorn. And talking about, “brother this rice is good brother”, “Brother, this Muslim food is “bad” brother”. Just forgive me for (unclear). Sister comes out and serves you rice looking like boiled rat turds. 

Some of over-did it you know, we all don’t stop where it says stop, you know. Most of us browned that rice, but some of us carried it to extremes, came back with some black rat turds. Brother sit down here (unclear), “brother, all praise is due to Allah for the Honorable Elijah Muhammad”. “Sister when was this cake baked?  “Well brother I made the cake tonight.” “I can’t eat that cake, you know better than that. We don’t eat no fresh cake”. “Go back there sister and get some of that bread that’s left over from last week. Get some of that stale bread and make me a real Muslim cake”. The black devil, let me tell you gets every kind of disease, but he hardly ever gets a cold. He eats all of that penicillin mold off that bread, man. He’s getting a flu shot every day. High blood pressure, rheumatism, heart ache, a rash breaks out on his face, color disfigurations and what not, but never a cold. He eats penicillin every time he dines. Well this is truth, and I promise you that one year the… 

(end of tape side).

(First 17 min unclear). …Alright now. Now that we have seen the world of Yacub, and the world of the Honorable Elijah Muhammad, and had a counter attack using the same material, the same methods, same ideas, don’t think that your religious material was Qur’anic material, it was not. You were taught that G-d manifests in the flesh. That’s not Qur’an teaching, that’s Bible teaching. You were taught that G-d was a flesh and blood man on earth. Qur’an never taught that, not in the Quran. That’s the teachings of the Bible. You were taught also that the devil has color, and G-d has color. That’s not in the Holy Qur’an, that’s in the Bible. If you read the Bible carefully G-d, or the righteous are given the color of white and purity, and the Christians (unclear).. no. Is that right? They identify white with purity and righteousness, with G-d’s image. Is that right? And they call, in the Christian theology, not only Christian theology in other religious theologies too, they call the devil black. Now you know according to the Bible the devil began in darkness, and he brought out of darkness and he becomes white. 

He becomes a light. Is that right? And he rises and rises in whiteness and becomes so bright, and he’s called the star of the morning. Is that right. Lucifer, Lucifer, and a lot of words that we use right now you see the word brightness of light. When you say, give me some words for brightness of light,…Lucite, that’s a word. Lucid, Lucite. Okay so we have the word. So Lucifer you see the same words, brightness, light. You see? So it says in the Bible, Oh Lucifer, that star of the morning why has thy fallen. Is that right? So we have in the Bible the devil going from darkness to light, but in darkness he’s not the devil. In darkness he was just a germ that G-d wanted to create or make. Right? And He didn’t want the germ to become devil. He wanted the germ to become a man, a woman, a righteous person. Is that right? But the germ didn’t become, - at first Adam did not become the product that G-d had in mind, had intended. But it was all in G-d’s plan that the man take the form that he took. He didn’t become that man that G-d wanted, but still G-d accepted it, that was in His plan. He became a hungering man a hungering person for knowledge. 

Now G-d knows that in time if you keep continuing that hunger for knowledge no matter how much you break from Me if you keep continuing to hunger for knowledge, knowledge is going to eventually open up you eyes. Now if you never become wise enough to see Me, then that knowledge will either destroy you, or bring you to me. So 
G-d intended that knowledge brings man, or brings human society, brings human beings to their fullness. So the book says that G-d set up one tree in the garden, in the midst of the garden that thou shall not eat. Now this is all on Yacub. And the Bible named that tree as the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. Right? It was in the midst of the garden. The woman was tempted, so the book says, to get that knowledge, to eat of that tree. What does the woman stand for here now? The woman stands for, Eve stands (for the individual person), Eve stands for your flesh make up, your body. Your body is what tempts you to take into your heart and mind things that (unclear).. eat. Do you understand? Your flesh, you do it because you say, - I stole because I need it. But what needs it? Your mind? Your heart? No it was the material thing. You wanted to increase your material comfort. Is that right?

Okay, so even if you lie. What are you protecting if you lie? You’re protecting something that is physical. It has a physical origin, and not a spiritual origin. Maybe it will take a long time for some of you to see all of this, but I’m just going on with it. We can’t stand here an hour and try to show you that. Now, there’s an Eve that stands for the individual, it stands for his physical body. So flesh is sinful, the book says. Is that right? The flesh is weak, the book says. So in the Genesis the flesh is called Eve. Now what (unclear) as this Genesis story progresses? (unclear section)..Genesis (unclear)… and a growth from one origin to higher and higher levels. There are many genesis. Everything has a beginning. And they progress on until they reach there fullness. Is that right? Alright, so the next genesis of this particular body or concept that is seen in the physical body, idea or concept that is seen in the physical body that is there is desire for the physical world, because we are (unclear) body of the physical world and we need something of the physical world to maintain, or sustain the physical body. Right? So the physical world is always pulling on us to satisfy the physical needs. 

But now when we come up to society and leave individuals, something else becomes Eve. Society itself becomes Eve. Do you understand? Alright now I’ll explain it to you so you will understand without a doubt. When the individual is not tempted by his own flesh, his temptation comes from the society. You may rule your own flesh, and deny your own flesh, and in your own, your own flesh might not give you a problem. Is that right? But you step outside of your own and there is the society tempting you with all kinds of things. Is that right? Tempting you with lust. Tempting you with criminal ideas. Tempting you with fear. Tempting you with many things. Is that right? Sometimes the greater Eve is not the individual’s flesh, the powerful Eve grows out of benefits from society. Do you understand? Alright, so the man who fell victim to the flesh, he was the individual, but in that genesis is reflected also the story of society, or the genesis of society. It tells us that this, (unclear) stands a man that can’t stand the test of his own physical body. And when he gets hungry rather than (unclear section)…we were going out tonight to steal something, kill somebody. Right? 

Okay so just like that thing that existed in the individual, and caused a devil spirit to rise up in the individual to answer the temptations of his flesh there is in society a mentality that can’t stand to do without the things that it desires and wait until G-d opens a way, it will go out and kill the members of the society to get what it wants. Now what is that society? I know the world doesn’t like it. It’s commercialism. The commercial world, brother they will kill us individually to get what they want. They don’t care if they kill your morality. They don’t care if they kill your intelligence. Don’t you know that they tell us the T.V. commercials are designed for a twelve year old mind? They don’t care. They know if they can get you to buy their products they stand a distance and grow strong. But look what materialism, look what the thief is doing. Look what the thief is doing to the individuals of the society. This thief now who’s in the (unclear) of the society and he is influencing or acting upon the appetites of the men that really (unclear) … lead the society, the material the wealth of society. Acting on them forcing them to tempt you to buy, though it hurts your home life. To buy though it deprives your children of things that are more important that they need. To buy though it corrupts your house. Is that right? They don’t care what they sell you. They don’t care what the damages that those (unclear). They only want you to pay them, buy, to patronize them. Is that right?

Is this man saying that the commercial world is the devil? No. the commercial world is Eve. Growing from the individual’s flesh to society of flesh. That acts on the minds of the people to get them to do things against G-d, and to (unclear).. defeat the progress of their society. The devil is not the commercial world, or not the material or the (unclear) world. The devil is the mind in that world. Whispering to eve, (unclear)… give it to Adam. This tree is for all of us. That’s the real Satan. You may say who is that? The grafted mentality of this wicked world. Their philosophy. Their ideology. Even their Christianity is all designed to justify every wicked idea that they come up with and execute on the weak members of the society. I know it sounds hard, but it’s true. Christianity can’t stand, it must go. (unclear). People can believe in Christ if they want. We won’t stop them from doing that, but I have given my life brother, to stop the preaching of the crucifix doctrine. To stop the preaching of that doctrine that says G-d manifests in a Caucasian body. And that flesh had to pay a bounty, had to be sacrificed and be whipped and tortured so that  faith can come into the society. If I believed that crap then I’ll accept all of the physical torture that this evil wants to put on every people (unclear)… the body has to be sacrificed, the body has to be crucified so that faith will come into the heart. All that’s a wicked, diabolic concept. 

The book says that you don’t know the depths of Satan. Let me tell you, I’m here to tell you brothers and sisters that’s true. This world talks about the devil, but you don’t know what the devil is. You don’t know just how powerful the devil is. You don’t know just how deep this wickedness, his tricks are. You don’t know the depths of his deceit. We have to tell you. Now I don’t have the time to talk to you, I can talk to you until seven o’clock tomorrow morning if I tried to (unclear) everything into this subject, but I’m going to hold you for four hours just to tell you a few more things. Look when you look into this book with the light, the special light that we give you, you can see that the (unclear) the Bible that the church is preaching out of couldn’t (unclear). But they hid it so they can’t see it. Why was it hid? Why did they have to hide it? Because the church had (unclear) come into existence before the righteous people could do anything about it. Once they saw what had happened it was too late. 

So they said the only thing we can do is work behind cover, and aid G-d’s righteousness; the truth. So that when the time comes when the people began to lose some of the love for this thing, when it loses some of its fascination over them, then their eyes will begin to examine this thing, and when the eyes begin to examine those things that truth that value truth that we have saved into this Bible against the very (unclear) that preach this Bible. Even that, let the pope come here, I’ll go to the pope. I want to see the truth become free in the world. If the pope won’t come here, I’ll go to the pope. I’ll go to any of the great leaders. Not that (unclear) the small ones. It doesn’t justify me going to them. But those big ones, I’ll go to any of them, and let them give me equal time before the world. To show them the truth, and I want them to reply. I guarantee you the pope can’t reply to this. There is no man, let me tell you something brother, there is no man on the face of the earth that would reply to it without admitting that I’m right. 

I know because G-d has showed it to me. It wasn’t a spook. The G-d that showed it to me was real. I have never seen or witnessed anything more real than G-d. (unclear), people, your actions, your thoughts, your wisdom, nothing I have witnessed was more real than the G-d that manifested Himself to me. When you meet Him there is no doubt, and He’s not a physical, “He”, or a biological, “He”. So we just use that term because it’s part of Yacub’s grafted terminology, for want of a better one in this world. 

Let’s go and see something in this Bible. In Genesis the Bible starts talking about the wickedness of the world that was coming into being; Yacub’s world. It starts off with the individual (unclear)… tempted by the flesh. What temps him? The serpent. What is the serpent? Intelligence. The hunger, the appetite for knowledge. Human beings are all born with intelligence, and in that intelligence is a thirst, a desire for knowledge. G-d intended that we have that in our nature. It’s necessary to grow up, from baby to adult. But the first generation that this Bible gives us didn’t stand the test. That means that there was a particular generation, it means that for human beings, - period, wherever  human beings start up, or start growing as society, or civilization, in their early life when they’re ignorant and weak in knowledge they can’t stand the (unclear) of the flesh. And that first Adam fell victim to the flesh. Do you understand? But as man grows and G-d let him fall victim to the flesh, but G-d began to make him thirst more for knowledge. As his knowledge grows he began to see the (unclear) of his yesterday sin. And as he grew he reformed. Is that right? But if he’s just bent upon being a wicked ol’ troublemaker, he doesn’t reform. He takes the knowledge that he gets and uses it to further his wicked path. Is that right? To make more evil in the world.

Okay so this is what the Bible’s telling us. It starts with the individual, brings our minds to see the society as (unclear).. under the (unclear) influences, and becomes a bigger Adam, a bigger serpent, and a bigger Eve, a bigger devil. Is that right? And it grows, and grows, and G-d says every time He completed something He said, “and it is good”. Though it looks bad to us in our limited knowledge, G-d didn’t say it was bad He said it’s good. It’s good because it’s moving on to manifest My great plan. It’s good because it’s moving on to manifest My superior power and knowledge over all things. 

Okay, let’s go on now. But the freedom of the individual remember is given to us from the start. So we can’t (unclear) things now. Because the conscience warned all of us not to do these things. Even the ignorant are warned by their conscience not to do wickedness. Is that right? But the temptations are too great for the ignorant, or the baby mind. So eventually the temptations overcome the baby. And the baby starts (unclear). Is that right? Alright, let’s go on now. So we see the birth of the devil here. First the human beings are made and they become knowledgeable, and there is temptation in the flesh that makes the knowledge want to satisfy the urges of the flesh, and not satisfy righteousness (unclear). Is that right? And this grows and grows until finally the little baby devil becomes really an adult full grown devil. Now how did this happen? And who brings this about? It’s the most wicked that brings this about. Those that get knowledge and see the knowledge. See that G-d is G-d. See that justice, truth prevails. Knows that in time they’re going to be found out and destroyed, but still persists in their wicked ways. This is the devil. This is the real devil. This type of wicked person (unclear)… to justify every evil thing that he has to do. This is the real devil. 

Now in the Bible, in the Genesis who does this real devil now, that the Bible identifies. If you go and read the Chinese Bible, the Buddhist Bible, they got a devil in their Bible too. And when they tell you who the devil is, they identify somebody too. You go to Arabic people that believe in the spirit (unclear).. you’ll find that they believe also that there is an evil spirit, an enemy spirit. And that spirit they identified it as somebody in some people. But let’s see where the Bible puts the (unclear). They’re talking about Satan, the devil. You’re not going to like it, but I’m going to give it to you. Okay, let’s go now. Here it says, chapter 4 of Genesis, “an Adam knows Eve his wife, and she conceived and bears Cain, and said I have gotten a man from the Lord”. Now here’s the proof. You read this and you’ll never get the understanding. I’m talking to the preacher. It said, “I have gotten a man from the Lord”. And the preacher thinks that they mean from Adam. The book doesn’t mean from Adam. The book means that this Cain in not even called Adam’s son. Cain is called Eve’s son. Is that right? He’s not Adam’s son. Adam can’t have flesh sons. And certainly not devils. Though he’s a baby, he still can’t be a devil; he died. He died and has to wait until his form is awakened again to take on (unclear), he just can’t become a devil, but Eve can give birth to a devil. So she bears a son and says, “I have gotten a man from the Lord”. Meaning I have gotten a man from the creator, from Almighty G-d. G-d wants His Eve, metaphorically speaking, or symbolically speaking, G-d wants all of us to be His sons and daughters. Meaning following Him, loving Him, looking to Him for guidance and protection. Do you understand? (unclear section).

Okay, but there are some wicked forces in the world that don’t want the people to belong to G-d. They want the people to belong to them. So Eve the tempter who uses flesh to tempt the people is here given as tempting people to come to her. It means come to the love of the flesh. Do you understand? Okay that’s the beginning of this. So Cain is the beginning of the devil. He’s not the devil popular, he’s a baby devil. But Cain grows, and grows, and grows. His baby generation dies by the flood. And after the flood, a new devil that same old germ begins to grow again, but now it has the benefit of knowledge that has accumulated over many generations. It’s wiser now. Not the same little old baby stupid Cain. This same wicked power in the society is a grown up, wise devil now, and he’s going to start his plan. And who is this? Yacub. Yacub becomes the chief Satan. In the Bible he’s called Jacob. Now it says here, “and it came to pass that when Isaac was old”, listen now. Who was Isaac? Isaac is the father of Jacob, but Isaac is old. What is the book trying to tell us here? That Isaac is not strong anymore. Now what does Isaac stand for here, other than just a prophet. The real message is not that this is a prophet; that the prophet embodies the (unclear), the collective more than a prophet. 

So Isaac grows old now, he desired that he have a child. His wife was barren. He hadn’t given birth. He’s old so he wanted a child from his wife. Isaac here stands for the G-dly person, the G-dly force in the society. The G-dly force in the society desires a community of righteous people. Every G-dly person that is ruled by G-d, what they lone for is a congregation of the righteous. Is that right? The congregation is called the wife. That power in us is called the man. That’s Adam. That’s the Adam force in us. Okay, so he desired a wife, but he had been desired a long time, but he just couldn’t have a child. So he prayed to G-d for a child, and G-d blessed his wife to have a child. Meaning that He blessed the society to give birth to someone who would start a religious order to bring about a religious society. Do you understand? Okay let’s keep reading now; I’m still talking about Yacub, don’t think I’m off the subject. So Isaac got a child by Rebecca. Right? But he didn’t get just one child, he got two. The book says that there were two nations. Read this now. It didn’t say two babies. Two nations in this woman. Alright, so Jacob then is not a baby, is not an individual. Jacob is a nation. Cause Jacob was born, he was one of the twins in this woman. So if Jacob was born out of this woman then let’s go back to the book, it ways two nations were in this woman. So then Jacob means more than an individual, it also means a nation. Is that right?

And Esau means more than an individual, Esau means a nation. Jacob and Esau. It says Jacob was smooth. He didn’t have hair on his body, but his brother Esau was a hairy man. Now let’s think about this. Esau was a hairy man. Do you see how this would throw us off? We think here that Esau was a savage. A wild man. And Jacob was the nice clean, civilized man. It’s designed like this to throw you off brothers and sisters. Hair on the body in the scriptural sense means more than just physical hair. It means wisdom. If you remember we taught here a few months ago and we talked on hair as a symbol for wisdom. Is that right? The seven locks of Samson’s head I even went to tell you how the people came about this idea, terminology by looking at hair how it is located in the body. There’s hair on the arms, and the arms are strong. Is that right? There’s hair on the head, and the head is powerful because it directs the whole body. There’s hair also on the legs, the legs are strong, they support the body. There’s hair on the sex organs, because there’s power there for generation, for the generation of new life. Is that right? So we see that hair is around the regions of power. In the man there’s hair over the lip. The mouth has the power of speech. Is that right? So a lot of hair grows around the face and the neck. Is that right?

Alright, I know you’re tired and you want to go, so save your applause. There’s hair over the eyes. Why? Because the eye has the power of vision. There’s hair in the ears, because the ear has the power of hearing. And there is hair in the nose, because the nose has the power of smell. Do you understand? So the wise of ancient days, they used the hair as a symbol of the man’s strength. Alright now let me get going with this subject here, good G-d Almighty I want to shout. All praise is due to Allah. Then when you bring your little baby in the house with your mother your parents discipline you don’t they. They don’t let you get loose do they. If you get loose (unclear) Is that right? But after you get big you can get outside and get loose. Right? Okay well we’ve been brought from that first form under mother now. Now we’re in the second one, we’re teenagers outside in the society. We’re going to get loose. Let’s remember we have to be adults one day, so let’s not (unclear) ourselves with our play. Okay let’s go on now with this story. So there are two nations. You who have to leave, I understand that you have to leave. Thank you for your patients to sit this long, we know you’ve been  helped. Come back again. Every time you come here we have water. The well never runs dry. 

Two nations in the womb; twin. One of these twin, (twins means they were born at the same time) why do they give us this idea of twins? Because they don’t want us to think that here is something that’s older than the other in physical age or anything. It’s something that can come to birth at the same time the other comes to birth. Now there are two (unclear) things in us that can come to birth at the same time. One may come to birth without the other or they may come to birth together. If they come to birth together they will have to contend with each other for rule in out life. Is that right? Now Master Fard, he termed these two things as two germs in the original man. He didn’t say two nations, he said that Yacub discovered that there were two germs in the original man. Is that right? Alright, lets keep going I can’t tell you all today, but just keep coming back. We’re going to tell you quite a bit today. Now let’s go. Here it says Jacob said to Rebecca his  mother, behold Esau my brother is a hairy man, and I am a smooth man (unclear). I don’t have that divine knowledge. Now how am I going to be able to convince the G-dly, the G-dly power in the society. How am I going to be able to convince the G-dly power in the people that I am the rightful leader, the rightful heir, the rightful leader without the wisdom from Abraham and Isaac, my father. Do you see? Isaac has grown old, he was senile. It means that the religious order that had been established to guide the world had become old and had lost their knowledge. Had lost the memory of their knowledge. Just like an individual becomes senile and can’t recall what G-d said.

A religious society that knew what G-d said yesterday, today it grows old and forgets and can only recall some of the things. They get senile, and they can’t recall all the laws. They can’t respond readily to questions. They can’t deal with sin, with strength of youth. Is that right? So this is (unclear) as an old man, Isaac. So Isaac, the dying religious society, old dying religious society can’t really contend with the new forces of Eve, of the devil in its midst, so the devil sees that the religious society is in a senile stage, and now he says I can come to the G-dly body, and I can deceive them.

But to do it I need some of the wisdom of the righteous. Some of the wisdom of Adam, Noah, Abraham, and Isaac my father. Do you understand? Okay, so he tells his mother, and remember his mother is the one that turned him on. So this tells us something else. That first the society is influenced. The little devil gets his start because the society pushes him on. Is that right? If the society is strong for G-d’s sake then that devil won’t get his start, but since the society was weak Rebecca, meaning the society, the wife or the society was weak. Now in the  Bible we think of Rebecca, - the church if they heard me talking about Rebecca like this they’d be shocked. Because Rebecca is suppose to be a beautiful, righteous, - oh she’s such a shining star in the Bible. Is that right? But in reality this Rebecca is not the Rebecca the shining star, this is Rebecca the faded old star. She once was right, but she grew old. Do you understand? 

So the G-dly spirit had grown old, and the society, that religious society had grown old. So the religious society wants to get control. Now you’d find (unclear) just like this right now. That rather than do what G-d said, they will answer expedience, and do what it necessary to keep them materially strong in the society. Is that right? (unclear) they will sell the religious community down the drain brother to do what is necessary to keep them strong in the society. They will lie to the community. They will lie to the congregation, because they want to stay powerful as a material force, or as a political force in the society. Is that right? So we have here in Rebecca that type of society. That type of religious society that has grown old, and too weak to deal with strength and righteousness, now he wants to bring in wickedness, and give wickedness power. Take it from the throne. Don’t want Esau to rule. Esau has the wisdom of G-d. If we let Esau rule, Esau is going to correct me. Esau is going to correct his mother. He’s going to correct the society, and don’t they call the society your mother? Okay if we let Esau get this inheritance Esau is going to correct his mother. I want Jacob, his wicked son to get the power so he can help me. You see? 

Alright, so Jacob is this wicked son, and the religious society that has grown old and wicked, senile and weak in (unclear) and virtue now begins to cater, begins to aid wickedness in the society so that wickedness will help keep their wicked society (unclear). Alright, so she told him, she said look fool your father. The old man is growing old, and he is about to pass on his blessings to his son, his rightful son. So Rebecca that wicked society, that weak society in religious strength said look Jacob, I know you’re not the first son. (unclear) Do you see how this language is? Twins, but Jacob is the youngest, Esau is the oldest. Now if they were twins that little amount of time wouldn’t have made that much difference. The man would have had to decide between who was more capable of doing the job. He would have had to disregard age as a factor all together. Is that right? But it tell us these things to open our eyes if we are wise in the (unclear) by G-d. Okay, twins but they are not twins like you think man. These are people that might be much older in physical age than one another, but the power for their creation exist at the same time in the human makeup. Do you understand? 

Okay, let’s keep going. So she said, go out and trick your father. Now read this story in full detail sometime. You’ll see that Isaac, he liked his son Esau. Now if Isaac was a righteous man, and that’s what they believed why would he like Esau and not like Jacob if Jacob was the righteous son? Do you see? He didn’t like Jacob, he liked Esau, and he socialized, and he dined not with Jacob, but with Esau. He wanted Esau to go out and get some of that fine succulent meat that we both eat and enjoy. Is that right? You can read it for yourself it’s right here, the story’s here. It’s a beautiful story especially if you have understanding of interpretation. So the meat here, as you’re reading the book in the old testament, - Paul uses this same terminology for wisdom. Paul said that babies have to have milk, and only those who are wise in understanding, the learned only they can handle the meat. Is that right? So what Paul was telling us there is that meat means the wisdom, the higher knowledge in religion. You see? Okay, so the G-dly order body, - that means the wise in the religion. The G-dly and wise in the religious society, that’s Isaac. 

He had been sharing his wisdom with others called Esau. Do you understand? They had been sharing, eating, and enjoying this wisdom together, but the society had planned to take the order from the true and rightful order, and give it to a false people. Give it to a lying devil. So his mother said, I’ll tell you what we will do, we will go out and we will get an animal hide, and make you sleeves for your arms, and make you a collar for your neck. So that when your father Isaac touches the exposed parts of your body he’ll feel hair, and think that it’s the hair of Esau. All man I’m telling you. There are preachers, imams, rabbis, that will live forty years, and fast forty years to get what I’m telling you right now. Okay, so what did they do, they went out and got artificial hair. This is the beginning of the devil. Not giving the true knowledge that Almighty G-d revealed, but going out and getting something that looked very much like it, and fooling the G-dly people. So they came back, Jacob with this artificial hair on his body, on his arms, - exposed parts, and when Isaac the old man touched the hair of the animal he thought it was the hair of his son Esau. Alright now, what kind of hair was it? Animal hair. Isaac didn’t like to wear animal hair. Isaac enjoyed killing animals, and cooking their flesh. Making their flesh fit for his body. Is that right? And he used to do that with his son Esau who also didn’t want to wear animal hair. 

They wanted to go out and get animals and kill them. Kill the power of the animal flesh, the lust that’s in us, and then take that body that was once a lustful living animal and transform it into something that satisfies our appetites. Is that right? So we sit with each other after we’ve been converted to truth, and the same person whose animal nature, whose animal flesh offended us after he’s converted to truth, - is cooked, is prepared flesh, it’s so nice to our taste. So we sit and we dine from each other, nature, feelings, and sentiments. Is that right? Here as yesterday it was raw animals, and we couldn’t stand it. Is that right? Okay so here now, they don’t kill the animal as Isaac did, they come in with the hair of the animal. Actually, they have become the animal themselves. Do you understand? And he’s wearing the hair of the animal. His hair, his knowledge is not the knowledge of divine, his knowledge is the knowledge of lust and greed, materialism (unclear). Do you understand? That’s his knowledge. That’s the hair that is on him, but to work with it he has grafted it so it looks exactly like G-d’s knowledge to the senile society of the righteous. Do you understand? Alright so the senile society of the righteous, they look at it, they feel it, and they say, yes this must be Esau. Let us support Esau. Esau is going to be our king. But this is not Esau, this is Jacob. He’s gone out and taken the lust of the body. He’s taken the greed of his body. He’s taken the deception of his physical nature, that deception that has been (unclear) be the lust and the appetites of the physical nature, he takes that and whips it into a divine message, and then hands it to the G-dly people and says, see this divine wisdom? And they (unclear) to say yeah. It’s the hair of the animal, it’s the wisdom of the beast, but they think it’s the wisdom of 
G-d’s man. Is that right?

Alright now, Esau was the elder brother what does this tell us? It tells us this; that there was a religious society, a real one, - this is not fictitious, and it lost its place in the world, because it grew old and senile. It (unclear) it’s knowledge. And a younger people, or younger society came into it first and by craftiness, by deception supplanted as the book calls it, Jacob was a supplanter. Is that right? (unclear), knocked the real order out of their rightful place, and got into the place. Okay now here is the verse itself, the devil comes to birth right here. The society of the religious people fall victim to the temptations of the material world, and the flesh, and allow (unclear) the weaker elements of their society to come into power. Do you understand? And give them the scheme, the trick; give them the wisdom of how to pull it over on the G-dly people, so that the G-dly people will think that, yes they are truly from G-d. Do you understand? 

Alright let’s go on. And Rebecca took the G-dly raiment of her elder son Esau and put them upon Jacob. The raiment. What is the raiment? The raiment here means the moral teachings, the virtues of the religious. See in our physical bodies, when people see us they see physical bodies, but when they see what’s in this body, they see our virtue, or they see our vices. Is that right? So the dress in religion means either your virtue, or your vices. This is what the world can see. They can’t always see your wisdom. The wisdom is  hidden many times. They can always see your vices and your virtues, because these things are expressed without. Is that right? So she took, this Rebecca, this wicked order took the raiment of Esau, took the moral virtues of the legitimate, the lawful order and put them on the fraud, the imposter. Do you understand? Alright the book has said it. I’m not making it up, it’s here in the book, and I could show you that my interpretation, - I’m not giving you an interpretation that I can’t prove. I can show you by the Pope of Rome’s interpretation that I’m right. I can show you by the bishop’s rule, by the Baptist minister’s rule, I can show you by any learned preacher, or any religious leader, I can show you by their own rule, that I’m interpreting rightly. Now if I’m interpreting rightly, then who is this in the book? Who did this? They must exist somewhere, the book says they did it.

Alright let’s go on. And they didn’t teach me how to apply their rule. G-d revealed their rules to me and gave me a greater knowledge than what they have. Okay so she took the G-dly raiment (raiment means garments, clothing, dress), of her eldest son Esau, and she put them on the younger son Jacob, and she put the skin of the kid goat upon his hands, and upon the smooth of his neck. So the smooth part, after she put the (unclear) over the things she wanted to hide, there still was something exposed. Right? See there’s more to religion than moral virtue. There’s also wisdom, divine wisdom. Now what am I going to put here for the divine wisdom? The wicked society went and interpreted the forces or appetites of the flesh to mean the appetites of the spirit and the moral nature. And put them into a body of knowledge, and called it divine, or spiritual wisdom. Okay the book has it here. So this is really a first grafting right here, if you understand what grafting means. Grafting means to bring two things that are not meant by nature to be together, and cause them to exist together, - to exist and grow together. So here is a religious order here that took the righteousness and purity of an old senile order that was loosing its youth and strength to hold the strong devil forces in the society. They took that original order, and they mixed it in, dressed it up with false knowledge, and caused the false knowledge, and the original to grow together, and go together as one body. That’s grafted. Do you understand? Okay, so here was Jacob under the guise of Esau. Is that right? 

Okay, let’s move on now. And Isaac trembled very (unclear), this is Isaac. When Isaac saw what has happened, it was too late. He had already been fooled. Right? He had been tricked. The G-dly, the wise in the society had already been tricked. It was too late. When they woke up to what had happened, to what had been pulled over on their eyes, they trembled and feared. They said good G-d Almighty look what we had let happen. We had let a devil take over our order. Do you understand? And Isaac trembled very (unclear) and said, who (he wanted to know who was it) is this? “Where is he that has taken venison and brought it to me, and I have eaten of all before you, before you came, and has blessed him”. He’s talking to the rightful heir. He’s telling Esau, who was this who sneaked in here disguised as you, and got me to eat with him like I eat with you. Got me to sit down with him, and discuss wisdom with him, and we feed on the meat, the strength of our wisdom. And he’s gone out now, and now I learned just by seeing you that it was not you. What does this mean? It means that one day the rightful heir will make himself known again, and the G-dly people will say, good G-d Almighty what happened to us? How did we let it happen? Who in the world came in here, and (unclear) and put the devil’s message in here? 

And when Esau heard the words of his father he cried with a great and exceeding bitter cry, and said unto his father, bless me. Even me also my father. What is he saying? It’s too late now dad for you to give me my rightful inheritance. Satan got it. He’s got the people fooled, and has shamed you. You can’t come out. And you in old age now, you can’t even deal with it. He’s eaten with you. He’s gotten your knowledge now. (unclear) is too strong for you dad. In your old age you can’t deal with him. And I can’t deal with him now he has as much as I have. You gave him the same thing that you gave me. So dad he’s got it, he’s gone. He’s got the people following him. So now that you can’t give me my rightful position, you can’t give me what I rightfully deserve, and that is leadership, rule in society. Bless me anyway dad. So dad said, well I’ll give you a blessing, but you won’t get it now. You’ll get it later. Is that right? What was that blessing his father will give him? A dedication to righteousness to suffer in the world. To wait until his time comes. The blessings of patience and perseverance. The blessings of endurance. The righteous knows that the wicked will not (unclear) always. That their day will one day come to an end. Is that right? So that was his blessing. The old man gave his son the blessings of endurance, perseverance. Oh boy I wish I could hang around here a little longer but we got to move it on. 

Okay now let’s go to Jacob. Jacob now, he gets the rights to rule. He takes over the religious society. I’m telling you the truth brothers and sisters believe it or not. The synagogue has been under the power of the devil for many thousands of years. The church came to birth, but it came to birth when the devil was even stronger. It came to birth under the power of even a greater devil. The mosque of Prophet Muhammad, established 1400 years ago was the only movement that came free of the power of the devil. The Holy Qur’an existing here right now with us, unchanged, untouched is the only book that contains the true wisdom from Almighty G-d, without the false god, the false hair, the false wisdom of the animal beast world. The Holy Qur’an is the only one. That Prophet Muhammad was the only one, but did he destroy Satan? No, his message came in the world to live forever. The Holy Qur’an will never die. It will guide the world forever, but he did not destroy the devil. He destroyed him only in that society. Where he himself ruled and preached. But his wisdom also grew old like Isaac. And the Caucasians came into Arabia and tricked the Arabian people, the Muslims. Went into Africa, divided and tricked the Muslims of Africa, and brought them to lose their truth and their strength. To get away from this precious knowledge, the (unclear) of their knowledge. Caused them to fall down into the old (unclear) of piety, and virtue that we find in the western world. Isn’t this is a fact of history. The Muslim world though their book is pure, though their book is untouched by Satan, they weren’t strong enough, they were a baby people. They weren’t strong enough to deal with Satan brother. 

Prophet Muhammad survived, and (unclear) the companions of Prophet Muhammad, but the society itself proved that it was too weak to stand up against Satan. I’m not saying that you won’t find Islam over there today. You’ll find Islam. You’re going to find the Holy Qur’an, but you’ll find a senile religious society over there. And I believe I’m doing justice and accurately describing it. Some of you have been over there, right? It’s a senile religious society. They (unclear) tricked and they are tricked. But Master Fard said, can a devil fool a Muslim? Not now days. Back then they did, but we have come up with the goods. 

Now Jacob had a vision. We’re trying to hurry up and round this up, and let you go, because it’s real late and on the east coast it’s 8:30 instead of 7:30. Jacob had a vision, and in his vision the book says he saw an angel, and the book says he wrestled with the angel all night. Is that right? Until the morning, until the light appeared. And when the light appeared he had changed his wicked mind, and had decided that he was going to reform from his wicked ways, or turn from his wicked ways. So he went to Esau to confess his sins. Is that right? The book says he went to Esau, and he confessed his evil against Esau, and offered to share some of what he had with Esau. Okay. Alright this is the innocence of Jacob who saw his wickedness, and decided to reform, to change from his wicked ways. Who is this new Jacob now? That old Jacob that went around just boldly robbing, usurping authority, and taking over people’s lands and taking over the orders of society with craftiness and deceit, and not showing any sign that he was sorry for his evil. Who was that? The Jew. That first Jacob is the Jew. Yacub, the Jew, Satan himself. Now tell them if, that I’m saying that the Jew is a devil, you tell them that I said that the wise rabbis teach them that the Jew is the devil. But not all of the Jews. The wise Jew who is acting in the role of Satan, he is the enemy, the adversary. Ask them and they will tell you that I’m right. 

They themselves teach that the role of their wise and learned is the role of Satan. They are really the Satan, and they play that role and they think that they are serving G-d. They say it’s right to do this. We promote G-d’s plan. We are G-d’s promoters. I’m telling you what they teach. And you might not believe it when you find it to be true, you’re going to say somebody told him that. Nobody told me this but G-d. Master Fard never told me. Master Elijah Muhammad never told me. No human being in this society ever told me.
G-d revealed it to me believe it or not. Revealed it to me more plainly than anybody could have told it to me, and it’s a fact. They are the advocates of evil and wickedness, and they think that they serve G-d by acting in this role. Here is how they justify it. They’ll say, how can the righteousness come out of man if you don’t test it, and how can the evil in man be manifest if you don’t put pressure on him. So they themselves practice righteousness in their own society. I’m not talking about these Jews that sell whiskey out here. Those are little devils. There’re some bigger devils brother that planned this thing way, way back. They justify it, they say; we live righteous, we are the angels of G-d. We serve G-d. We don’t try to convert the world in what we believe in. The best way to bring G-d’s plan to fullness is to give the world whatever it wants….

(end of tape side)

… and believe in Jesus, believe in righteousness. Do you think they will keep all this evil around here available to everybody if they were really sincere like me and you are? They’d close these places up. (unclear part)…they are the devil. Oh he said that he stopped teaching like his father, he stopped calling the white man the devil, now he’s doing it again. No I’m not. I’m not calling the white flesh a devil, I’m calling the white scheme, the white mind, the white mentality that’s ruling, - directing the flesh the devil.

There are little ones and big ones, and we’re on the big one right now. Yes the book says that Jacob repented, and in his vision he saw an angel. But when you read the book and get all of it, it says that the angel was really the image of his brother Esau. So what was he wrestling with really? It wasn’t any angel. He was wrestling with the idea of changing from  his wicked ways. He was wrestling with the idea of being fair and honest with Esau. You see? And that’s hard to do. Because he had gained a lot of power. Right? He had gained a lot of power because of his deceit and evil to Esau. Those people who had us as slaves, in physical bondage the hardest test for them was giving us up because they were going to lose material benefits that came to them in the possession of the slave. Right? Alright, so this wicked society, religious order to give up their wicked plan and be honest with the G-dly people, they’re going to have to confess their faults, and give up their power. Give up their authority. Right? 

Okay, it’s beautiful brother. And believe me, I’m not telling you this. G-d is telling you this through me. Look how the book gives it. There’s Jacob repenting, and he went to his brother Esau, and he offered Esau some of his own wealth. Right? Some of his own material wealth. To show that I’m sincere now Esau. I’m not a profiteer anymore. I’m not out just for material things. Esau, I want to share the material things that I have with you. But Esau (unclear).. Esau had been hurt so long he just said, okay man you repent forget about it. Esau was ready to get on about his business. Okay, so the book says that he repented and went on his way, but that same Jacob who because of his change of heart and life takes on a new name; Israel. Is that right? Falls victim again, and grows again into the evil of his former life of Jacob. Is that right? But let’s, - before going there, let’s look at something in this story. The book says that Jacob after he had this vision and repented he was seen walking with a limp. Now don’t think that I have a limp because I’m Jacob. I have a limp because Allah wanted me to not forget this subject today so he gave me a limp like Jacob so that I will stay right on this subject and not forget to bring out the importance of the limp. Knowing me how my mind is, my mind goes from one truth to another, you know. It’s kind of flighty, but if I see a beauty out there man I’ll fly right away and go out there and get it and say, look at this, and then I’ll say look at that. Well if G-d doesn’t hold me to something I won’t stay with it. So he gave me a limp here to hold me to this limp in Jacob to bring you the understanding of it. 

Alright so what does the limp mean in Jacob? It says he was seen going over the hill with a limp. Is that right? (unclear part).. some of you I know remember me. Okay a man who limps is obviously weak in one of his legs, or wounded in one of his legs. Right? Before he didn’t limp. He was strong in both of  his legs, but now he repented and he’s weak in one of his legs. This tells us that this Jacob, though he repented he’s still in for trouble, because one of  his legs is bad. He had wrestled with the angel and the angel cut him in the sinew of his thigh. The sinew is the strong muscle in your thigh, but the wise learned that if you touch it the right way, - it’s sensitive it will cause your leg to limp, cause you to (unclear). So go with the strength is also weakness. It’s sensitive. Do you understand? Alright now. What does this leg mean? Where was he weak? He was strong in love for righteousness and G-d, because that’s what made him repent. Do you understand? But he was weak somewhere else. Where was that? In knowledge. In knowledge he was weak. Now they say, how was he weak? He has the wise wisdom. Yes, but remember now, this Jacob did not get the whole truth. He stole truth that was available to him. Do you understand? He talked with the wise, and he got as much as he can get. Then he mixed that truth with lies. You see? Alright so that truth that he had, and plus the mind that he had then wasn’t a mind that was fit to grasp the real, the whole truth. Though he repented, but he was weak in knowledge, divine knowledge. And that’s what the limp means. 

He limped in his left leg. What does that mean? Your left leg is your weak, (less in member of the body is identified as the weak member of the body). Left arm means the weak arm, the right arm is the stronger. Left leg is the weaker leg of the body. Now that wisdom that reports our weaker side is divine wisdom. The only wisdom that can uphold the flesh in society is divine wisdom. The world wisdom can’t do it. It’s their wisdom that will keep you weak in your physical body. Your flesh will be weak. The society as a flesh society will be weak with the worldly knowledge. But the divine knowledge is the muscle or the strength in the flesh of the man, and the woman, and the whole society. That divine knowledge will keep you strong. But when he was repenting, he had to give up his wickedness. Right? And he didn’t have the wisdom now to identify truth in it, and separate the truth from it, and extend upon that truth so that truth will be strong enough to sustain society. Do you understand? So because he didn’t have that knowledge, when he repented he became a different man, and he found himself weak now. His false knowledge was his strength. I’ve given up my false knowledge, now what do I have? I have no real strength. So he walked with a limp. He was good, but he didn’t have strength. Not the strength of wisdom. Do you understand? 

Okay now let’s see. So this is telling us that all the Jews didn’t continue to follow this role that their wise people had come up with for them. All of them didn’t continue to follow this devil plan to get control in the world by devil power. Well, there was a time when they killed people for just getting close to this knowledge, but they’re too late to kill me. So some of the Jews repented, and those Jews that repented are called Israel. Do you understand? They repented and they’re called Israel. Israel is the name that they translated Jew. It doesn’t rightly identify them. Many of those that are still Jacob, still the devil are among those that call themselves Israel. And many of those who repented are among those who call themselves Jews, and not Israel or other names. 


Okay, but let’s go on. They repented, but they didn’t have the wisdom, the strength of the wisdom so they remained weak in the society. Is that right? And Jacob, he struggled and struggled and finally Israel comes to some power in Jacob’s son Joseph, and later in men like Moses, and David. Is that right? Alright, but they were always plagued with many problems. That society was never really right. Is that right? Why? Because their wisdom was not strong. Now the Jews think that they are the wisest people on earth. They are the wisest on earth before we came along. And it’s just a very few of them that can even sit down and talk with me. They can’t hold a conversation with me unless I’m leading them every step of the way. I’m not bragging. I’m just letting you know what blessing Almighty G-d has given to the bottom, so that the bottom will come to the top. So this reformed movement, reformed Jacob they grow, and grow, and grow in the earth, and finally give birth to the church. The reformed Jew. The Jacob that repented from his profiteering ways gave birth to the church. Now when you study the bible you’ll see that Jesus was following a religion before he started preaching. Jesus went to the schools, Jesus was baptized by John the Baptist, and after he was baptized by John the Baptist Jesus started preaching. Is that right? 

So I’m not telling the wise anything. There are many wise in the church, and the Jewish synagogue and most of the Muslims know that Jesus was educated as a religious Jew, and he was a religious person before he became a prophet or took on the mission, the leadership. John the Baptist was preaching first. Okay, then Jesus came into his mission. John the Baptist himself when you study history, let us not be foolish, there is more history than we find in the bible. When you study history you’ll find that in the days of Jerusalem, the days of Jesus there were not one, but there were several, - even the bible tells you, there were several religious sects or orders. Is that right? And people belonged to one or the other. Jesus, they don’t say which one he belonged to, but some of them guess at which one he belonged to. Don’t think that Jesus invented religion. Jesus didn’t invent religion. Jesus came in a religious society as a religious person, and he began preaching because he felt compelled by Almighty G-d to teach a truth that he came into that shed more light on the religious question than anything that had been taught before his time. But he himself was a product of the religious order there in Jerusalem. Now that society of Jews that had repented they became righteous and holy,- serious in their religion. Devoted to truth, religious growth, spiritual development, and they left off the profiteering ways. The desires on the world to get the world to come under one Jewish leadership. They left, - they got away from that, and they were satisfied just to serve the spiritual needs of the human society. 

They would preach that to their own kind. They would preach to others who would come to them for learning. You see? And it was an order like this, in an environment like this that gave birth to Jesus, and Jesus was inspired to see more in the scripture than any other man in his time. So he became the leader of the new world order, new religious order, new world religious order. His birth came out of that reformed Jacob. That repentant Jacob, or so-called Jew. When he came to power he let the world know that he had come into a greater knowledge by identifying the Jew as Satan. He said, I know you. He said I beheld your father fall from heaven like lightening. He said you are a murderer, and a liar from the beginning. He said you (unclear) not in the truth, when you speak a lie the lie is your own lie. You are the inventor, the maker of lies. That’s what Jesus said to the Jews. It’s in the bible here. He said you are not the children of Abraham you are the children of the devil. They killed him and he was (unclear). The angels (unclear). It wasn’t time yet for the devil to be exposed before the whole world. G-d had to allow Satan to go on and do is whole thing. 

You see a great champ, he won’t stop a contender when he knows he can. Maybe he can stop him as soon as the bell rings, but a great champ will give the people some entertainment, and a great champ will teach his opponent some of the art. He won’t knock him out right away. He’ll say, okay you little chump, - smack, smack, smack, teach him some of the art, so that when he actually wakes up from his sleep he will know better what to do next time he steps in the ring with the champ. Is that right? Okay, well G-d is the same way in this sense brother. G-d won’t smack Satan down when he first gets up. He just keeps him in check. Keeps him from destroying the whole order, but lets him have his freedom to go all over the earth and do his thing. Knock out everybody that you can knock out until you wear yourself out. After you’ve worn yourself out I’m going to come in and do my thing. That’s what G-d said. He let them wear themselves out. He let them reach their fullness, and the bible calls it the fullness of the gentiles I think it says. Right? It says when the gentiles reach their fullness. You see He has to let them come all out with everything. Grow as powerful as they can grow. Then We check them, they have nothing to say. What does this world have to say now? They can’t say, well look we think there’s more value in democracy than that stuff that you’re teaching, Wallace D. Mohammed. Who can they get to listen to them? This world has gotten fed up with this American so-called democracy. Is that right? If they come up and say, look what we teach in the church is better. Who would listen to them? 

The world has gotten fed up with the church. The world knows that the church is nothing but a farce. That it’s just standing there as a shell. There is no real life on the inside. No more than there is in the average (unclear) of America. Is that right? You see the world knows that. G-d has let them come out and do their whole thing. He has let their knowledge run its course, and their spiritual teachers run its course. And He’s even let their physical might run its course. They’ve come to a point now that they can’t even use their physical might. If they use it they will kill themselves. Is that right? They say we got powerful weapons that we can’t use, if we use them, it will mean even the death of my own self. So G-d lets them run their course. He lets them reach their fullness. 

Let me keep going here, we’re going to let you go in a few minutes. Alright so what does the book say now. It says that the man repented, and when he repented he limped. He was weak. Who is this now that we identify as the repentant? Devil. Jacob was a little devil, and he repented. Who is now this devil that still has this limp? It is the new world order that came into being out of the old Jacob who repented. It is the church. The church on the whole has a sincere heart. The church on the whole loves G-d. Is that right? And they feel repentant. They will confess their fears. They pray to G-d for forgiveness. But they walk with a terrible limp. Is that right? In the world they just can’t hold the flesh up brother. They’re weak in one of the main limbs of their body. They’re weak. They (unclear) keep that part that is suppose to hold up the weakness of the flesh. They can’t keep it straight and strong. They fall down on that side. Limp over the hill. Is that right? We can go into the interpretation of everything in this story, but we don’t have the time right now. 

Okay, so this early story of Jacob is a protection, is a (unclear) reaching out into the distance future to show the wise who read the book just what kind of religious order that is going to be existing and have power over the world in the end of time. The religious order is going to be one like Jacob and Israel. Jacob was wicked, (unclear) the power, taking authority, ruling the world with a wicked hand. And Israel is reformed … (missing gap in the tape)

…and then a dragon, a mythical animal, he has fiery breath. When he speaks, fire comes out of his mouth. He devours with his breath. Is that right? So this (unclear) snake that was small in Genesis and Revelations, he becomes a big dragon who is able to walk like other creatures on the earth, and he speaks with a fiery voice. His knowledge burns up the atmosphere, and lights up the world, but it’s the light of wickedness and falsehood. He’s the beast, he’s the dragon. Is that right? Alright and the Revelations says that, that beast was seen going down in a lake of fire. That beast who used fire as his weapon to fight and paralyze the world, and charm the world, and hypnotize the world, and bring the world under his spell will be burned up by a like substance, - by fire. Is that right? Okay let’s keep in going now. Let’s go back to Genesis again, and let’s see how this snake comes up now as a bright body of knowledge. Adam falls down as a victim to the snake which is the body of knowledge (intelligence), intelligence that leans toward materialism more than it leans towards G-d, and this body grows in brightness, and it’s not called knowledge in the latter parts of the scripture, but it’s called a bright star; Lucifer. Is that right?

Lucifer; that bright star. So Lucifer this little snake, this little intelligence just a little brightness of knowledge grows to become a great light, and lights the world. Is that right?
He lights the world and convinces the world that he has light from heaven, but then he falls. Who is this falling? We think it’s ancient Babylon. Brothers and sisters that’s not ancient Babylon. That’s the Jew. The Jew rose to great heights and then they fell. I’m talking about the wise devil Jew. Not all Jews. But he didn’t fall to stay down. (unclear).. how has thou fallen. Star of the morning. Is that right? But later on in the book we find that the book says that, that old Lucifer who was ruling and fell had transformed himself into an angel of light. Is that right? Read the book. Alright, so this same Lucifer who fell, his light fell out of the sky of the world. He (unclear) the light and rules the world. That’s the Jew. The Jew gained power and they ruled the eastern world, or the world for a long time. Their knowledge was the brightest in the world, but they fell. When Jesus came out he attacked them, and they fell. Is that right? They had already fallen, but he put them to a complete end. He said cursed be the fig tree, that it bear fruit no more. Is that right? He was talking about the Jew. It meant that you won’t feed the world any more. You are cursed. Not as a religious body, not as a religious leadership for the world. They were doomed, they were finished.

But now they fell as a religious leadership of the world, and the Christians, the church took their place. Is that right? And the book says that Satan, that old Satan, that old serpent was seen transformed as a angel of light in the end. Now what does that mean? It means that, that old wicked Jew, that devil, that Satan that’s in the earth promoting wickedness and claiming that he’s promoting G-d’s plan, to justify, or to put  his conscience at ease while he’s doing his wicked job. That same old wicked and wise Jew is going to get himself in to power in the church. How did he do it? He did it by teaching the Gentile, the European the Greeks, the so-called Gentile, and remember they called those people Gentile. Nobody else. Do you know what Gentile means? Not true people, not true humans. That’s what Gentile means. Not really people, not true people. Who called the Europeans that? It wasn’t Master Fard. It was the old Jew. It was the ancient Jew that called the Europeans that. Do you see? They’re not real people. And what did Paul say? The story says that even Paul didn’t recognize them as real people. Paul said that the Gentiles come in to the religion by adoption, and by a grafting process. It says the wild olive branch be grafted into the original olive tree. So they can’t come in naturally because they aren’t natural people. They have to come into our religion by us grafting them in, an artificial process. Is that right? That’s what Paul says. This is in Romans. 

So he talked of the Gentile being grafted into the original teachings of the Jews. And he referred to them as adopted. Adopted means that you weren’t the legal or the flesh son of the parent. Is that right? Adopted means you came from some other parent. We brought you in. You’re not really our family. You don’t really belong to our father and out family, but we bring you in by adoption. The Gentiles read this in Romans. They read it in the Bible, and still believe what has been put over them by the wise Jew. You’re telling them here; Paul telling them that you can come in, but you’re not just like us. We are original, you’re grafted. We are naturally G-d’s people. You are wild and contrary to Divine nature. That’s what Paul is saying. The Honorable Elijah Muhammad preached this and Master Fard taught it to him, and we blame the Honorable Elijah Muhammad and Master Fard. But this is in the Bible. Read it in Romans for yourself. 

Okay, let’s keep going. It won’t be long. I’m winding around to a close. So this devil was transformed into an angel of light. Alright, we know that the fallen angel was the Jew, and the church rose up as the light of the world. But what we don’t know is in that light is the devil, transformed. Meaning that you don’t see the Jew there as Jew. He’s transformed. He’s in another form. That same old wicked Jew, that same old devil Jew got his grafted mentality in the church, ruling the church, and ruling the Christian world, or the west, the whole west, not just America, Europe too, and everywhere they’re teaching that song called Christianity. Satan rules, but not in the form that he was in first when he was seen as Jacob, as Jew. He rules now as Christian. But it’s the same old Jew, the same old plan. Believe it or not, the Jews have teachings in some of their texts or religious schools that you can see right away is the teaching of the church. The Jews teach also that G-d or the spirit manifests itself in the physical flesh. And they teach also that the way to get people to accept righteousness is not by giving them the right thing, but give them a guise, a disguise of the right thing. Because they are not strong enough, they’re not fit for the right thing. So it’s their belief that since G-d himself reaches us in the flesh, not in the spirit. We don’t see G-d in the spirit. We see G-d in the flesh. We see G-d in His prophets. We see G-d’s angels in his prophets. I’m telling you what the Jews teach. Not all Jews. Some particular Jews. We see G-d in the flesh of His prophets. We see G-d’s angels moving in the flesh body of his prophets. So if G-d shows Himself to us in flesh people, not in reality, but behind the flesh of his prophet then we should show the people G-d’s truth, not in His reality, but behind the flesh of the world’s knowledge.

This is what they believe. This is what they have done. And they’ve taken over the church from the very beginning. And they gradually moved them (unclear).. in that design, so that they will bring the church where they wanted it to go. Don’t you know white supremacy is no accident? It was planned brothers and sisters. There was white supremacy in the world before, but is was local. It never had the power to take over the whole world. In Asia, among the Indians there was Aryan white supremacy. And it took over the dark people of India, and right now you’ll find traces or (unclear) existence of the class system over there. Blacks are called untouchables because of their black skin. And you’ll find blacks over there (unclear) just like you’ll find whites. And they’re all Indians, they all look like the same people except for their color. Am I right or wrong? Many of you know this, you’ve seen these people, but they have this old teaching over there of a class system. When I said they’re the same, I don’t mean they’re exactly the same people, but I mean that their blood has gotten so mixed up now, that when you see some Caucasian looking Indian, and some black one they have similar features, the hair and everything, it’s similar. Only thing you notice as standing out as different is black skin. They have straight hair just like the Caucasian, or Indians. If fact they called themselves Caucasian there too, you know that. Blacker than me, blacker than you. Shinola black, and they called themselves Caucasian. Yeah, I’m telling you the truth. They wouldn’t dare identify with us. Not all of them, some of them. A great majority of them. 

Now this white supremacy doctrine was gradually brought into existence, moved into existence by the devil spiritual force. So-called religious force. Judaism and Christianity gave the birth and support to white supremacy. Study the Christian religion, study the Jews religion you will see that it has the germs in it for establishing white supremacy. Look at Christianity and you see white supremacy. Am I right or wrong? I know some of you Christians hate to admit it, but look at Christianity and you see white supremacy. Jesus on that cross is not colored, he’s Caucasian, and until here recently in America they made a point of making that Jesus as Caucasian as they possibly could. He was blonde hair, blue eyes, sharp features. Is that right? But here lately after the truth is coming out they’ve changed now. Really to tell you the truth, the wise in the church would like to give up that crucifix, but they don’t know how to do it. They just don’t have the moral strength to admit outright that this is wrong, and let’s get rid of it.

If they had that strength they would do it, but they wish that the masses would rise up and ask them to get rid of it, and they would be glad to it brothers and sisters, because the (unclear)… and the book says that in the end that old (unclear)..shall be revealed. His nakedness shall be shown before the world, and the world shall see him as he is, Is that what the book says? 

Peace be on to you, As-Salaam-Alaikum.


