October 22nd 1977
Dawa and Youth
Imam WD Mohammed:

We had the last class, last class, we were dealing with the Hajj in relation to the Ka'aba. Some of you were attending the Hajj orientation. Let's see your hands of those attending the Hajj orientation class. This
Speaker 2:
class, what we've been talking about, are the fundamentals of faith and practice of our belief and the fundamentals of belief and conduct. Most of you who have been coming to the class for some time and have been Muslim for some time for a few months or so, you should have some knowledge of the fundamental principles of Al Islam. There are first things for Muslims and their religion. There are many things that we believe. There are many things that we practice, many good acts and many good things that we practice. But there are some very important ones. They're called fundamentals, or first things for Muslim to believe and to practice. We'll quickly review these and if you have notebooks you can quickly write 'em down if you don't know them, you can write 'em down.
The religion of Al Islam in the Holy Qur'an is not a new religion. Says that this is the same religion that was given to Abraham and all the Prophets including Jesus. And it says also that it is the religion, the religion after the order established by G-d in the nature of the human being. So it is a religion that is in accord, that grows naturally with the human being, the religion that grows naturally with the human being. And any true religion. If it's a true religion, it's a religion that grows naturally with the human being. By that we mean that Almighty Allah has put it into our very nature to be Muslim if people leave us alone. If we are born and people leave us alone, we'll grow into the worship of Allah. We'll growing into the worship of Allah. We will have a fear and us for power bigger than us, that is G-d our creator and our idea of religion will continue to grow and we'll know more about it.
We'll be able to understand and explain it better as time goes on. Like people come into the world, they don't come into the world knowing how to build skyscrapers, knowing how to make automobiles. They come into the world knowing nothing, but in time they learn all these things. And the religious development is the same. The religious development is an intelligent development. It is a development of intelligence. There's a nature in us for that intelligence and that nature is fear. Fear and love. Fear and love and thankfulness. We fear things that can destroy us. And we are grateful when we are protected from things that can destroy us. This gratitude has been put into our nature by our creator. This fear has been put into our nature by our creator. So everything, the basic things, the basic things of faith, of religion is put into human nature from the very beginning. But these things just have to grow with intelligence. And that's what the Qur'an means when it says that this Islam is the religion, the natural religion of the human beings, the natural religion of the human beings. So number one, among the beliefs, among the beliefs, we start with beliefs because you don't practice things before you first conceive those things in your mind. Nobody ever practiced anything before they conceived it in their mind. First the thought comes to the mind. And then if it's a good thought that should be acted out, we act it out. Or if it's a bad thought we act it out. The first one is to believe or to have faith. Have faith, have faith, F-A-I-T-H in Allah.
Imam WD Mohammed:
Have faith In Allah, I believe in Allah. And two, two have faith in, well we know what should come next, right? His, we never should say our Prophets. You always say His because the Prophets are G-d's. And Prophets are Messengers, Prophets are Messengers. The Prophet is called in the Qur'an a Messenger and Prophet, Messenger Prophect. And he's called that because he didn't only come in prophecy, in the prophecy that was before him and fulfill that prophecy that was before him. And also prophesised. Many of us don't know that Prophet Muhammad also prophesied, he did and also prophesise. But his job was like an evangelist, going from place to place with the message, giving the message to all the people. So he was a Messenger-Prophet.
We put Messenger. Since we have adults here today, and many of you know a lot about religion, Bible and Qur'an too perhaps. I'm going to tie in the Bible with some of this. Now to show the difference between the idea in the Bible and the idea in the Qur'an. In the Bible, Prophet can be a false Prophet. They're Prophets that the Bible mentioned but they were false. I think Jezebel is called a Prophetess right, but you don't see the sinner, great sinner. Now the Qur'an is different. Nobody is called Prophet except Allah's Prophet. And in the Bible, again, preachers of the gospel are called Messengers. In the Qur'an, only the Prophets can be called Messengers. So that was a great difficulty for the Honorable Elijah Muhammad with those who were adverse to his use of applying the term Messenger to himself. So he said, I'm not a Prophet, he said, I'm a Messenger. But they were confused because in the Arabic, in their language, in their understanding, Prophet and Messenger is the same. But in the Bible language is different. A minister can be a Messenger. Messenger. He's a Messenger of the gospel. He's a Messenger of the gospel. But he can say he's a Messenger of G-d because he's the Messenger of the gospel. You see? So the understanding is different. Messenger and Prophet in Qur'anic language or the Arabic language means that you got direct communication from G-d through supernatural ways, by supernatural way. It didn't come ordinarily. If I talk to you like I'm a man, I'm a man, I'm talking to you, that's just somebody talking to you. You can say G-d sent him, but still that's just the man talking you. But if you through no man get understanding that nobody else got and extend what Prophets did before and unlock mysteries and extend the Prophethood.
If you do that and you receive from a direct source that you say was G-d, if it stands up, if it can be proven that what you get gave stands up just like all the other scriptures that went forth, well you'll become known as a Prophet. You see? Now there were many things that happened in the life of Prophet Muhammad, to prove, to serve as evidence that he was indeed a Prophet or Allah. Many things happened. Please don't run that recorder unless it can run without me knowing. Many things happened in the life of Prophet Muhammad that serve as evidence that he was indeed a Messenger Prophet of G-d. We won't go and name those things, but to be a Messenger or Prophet in Al Islam, there must be a revelation. So if you say he's a Prophet, he's a Messenger. Those that understand Prophet in this sense they say where is his message?
What is he bringing? Where is his book? If the Honorable Elijah Muhammad, if he had raised up a book, then maybe we could think, we could maybe suspect that he was saying that he was a Messenger of Prophet as it is understood in Al Islam. But he never raised up a book other than the Holy Qur'an. Although he had booklets for Master Fard's teaching, but he never raised those books up and said this is a revelation from G-d. Never did he ever introduce them as revelation from G-d. So by that the Honorable Elijah Muhammad clearly was saying that he was a minister, a minister of Master Fard Muhammad, or a minister serving divine purpose. A minister or a Messenger, but not in this sense. A Messenger in the Bible sense, meaning a minister of the divine message, a minister of the divine message. Now let us go to number three. To have faith in, what would be the third now? The books, that's right. First it's Allah, He's the source of everything. Then the Prophets, they're inspired by Allah and with the inspiration comes new knowledge. But that knowledge is put into scrolls in ancient times and the book, the book. And we have the book the Holy Qur'an. So belief in His book, we all always have to say His books, Allah's books, belief in His books.
Now what I'm giving you here is universal. When you go in India, Africa, Philipp, anywhere you go, and if you ask the question as you getting them here, it'll be the same. It doesn't change anywhere. Now, to have faith Allah, to have faith in His Prophets to have faith in His books And four, what would four be? Yes, four, to have faith in His, not in angels, in His angels. And angels. Okay, to have faith in His angels. Yes.
Hereafter. Hereafter. There's no such expression in the Holy Qur'an, hereafter. No such expression in the Qur'an hereafter. The expression is life after death. We believe in the life after death. D-E-A-T-H. After the death. Now there there's one more. We are going to talk on this one because this is the one that sinners have the biggest problem with. Let's go to the last one. Who knows the last one? Reward and punishment. Reward and punishment. Six. Reward and punishment.. Alright, now we have 'em on the board. There are many other things we believe in, but these are the most important. These are the first things for Muslims in their belief. And there in the order, they're written in the order that they come naturally. This is the order that they naturally come. First we believe that there are a power greater than us. We fear that power. When we are in trouble we turn to that power for help if we can't find it any other way. And second, some of those people among those people who have that fear, there'll be some closer to the fear, to the right kind of fear than others. Among that kind of people a Prophet will come into existence. And from the Prophet there will be books or the written message, teachings of the Prophets. And then there will be an explanation because the people want to know how did this come to you. There wasn't a physical man, no physical person talked to him. How did this come? So they explain it. It came by way of the angels, the medium, the medium by which the message reached the Prophet from Allah is called angels.
And what does angels mean? Means those forces in Allah's creation that He use to serve Him in His relationship with people. The force can be non-human and the force can be human. A human being can never be an angel, but an angel can be a human being. Now let me explain. Yes, I remember, I'll use the same one we used the other day. Say if I have great need as an emergency, I need twenty dollars. Okay? I couldn't get twenty dollars. All day long I've been trying to get $20, I need it by seven o'clock otherwise theres going to be a great problem for me at seven o'clock if I don't have that $20.00. I go home, I'm giving up, it's close to seven o'clock. Time I get home, start in my house somebody say, Hey Brother Imam, I've been trying to catch up to you. I got some leaflets for you. I open up the package theres $20. The man who gave me $20 didn't know I needed $20.
So at that time, Allah was using him as he was the force. Allah was using his kindness as an angel to bring me the money. But he's not an angel because at the time he had no knowledge of the role that he was playing. So the angels are the forces that Allan used to carry out His missions between Himself and His creatures. And they have no sex, they have no intelligence. And as the Qur'an say they have the angel speaking. But you have to understand the interpretation. G-d says to Adam says, tell them their names, tell the angels their name. And the Holy Qur'an says that all of them submitted except Iblis, the rebellious fella. And they said to G-d, we have no knowledge except that you've given. We have no knowledge except that you've given. Meaning that they don't have any ability to learn things, study things, know anything. But it applies generally too, it means that those forces that G-d has not given the free mind, the free intelligence, they don't question G-d Whatever He order, they obey, they cannot resist. They don't have free intelligence to resist. The only creature that He has given free intelligence is the human being.
So we can resist. We question and we resist. But the forces in the creation, they don't resist. And Allah says in the Holy Qur'an that Muslim is the nature of the creation. And we say in Al Islam that every person is a Muslim in his or her nature. It's only in their complete mind that they're not Muslim but in their nature they're Muslims. Now the example that I just gave you of a person being used as an angel is clear proof that the human being in his nature is a Muslim. His mind couldn't come into it. His mind coudn't come into it so he brought the 20$. His nature, his body obeys G-d with no question, right? I'm talking about something many people experienced. Sinners and good people experience. Okay, well here's something that many people experienced. What this that tells us is that the the real nature of the human being is not against G-d. It follows without question. But his intelligence, the things that he have learned from the world make him have crazy ideas. He resists G-d. He doesn't want to be right.
Now let us go to this. The life after death. In the Qur'an, Allah says, tells us, the beautiful description, the kind of life that we are coming to. He describes it as a garden with thick, green, foilage. The green is deep, very deep. Rich, means very rich. We know when we go to a garden and we see the green is deep green. It means rich, it's rich, very rich in life. And He describes it as being very heavy, thick, not just sparsely or scarcely planted but richly planted. And He described the colors, the beautiful colors and He described the mates that you'll have, the eyes of the women. Big, big eyes, big bright eyes. And a man like a big bright eyed woman. He don't want a big buckeyed woman. A man like a big wide eyed woman.
So Allah know the kinds of things that we like. So he put those things in that description, description for the paradise or the after life. But those who read the Qur'an over and over and have faith in Allah and believe in what He's given them, Allah bring them to a higher understanding. That first description there, it's mostly symbolic. Many other definitions, terms to describe it,symbolic. We're using the word symbolic because that's the one you're most familiar with. So that's the one we use. It's mostly symbolic. Doesn't mean that you going to have that exactly, but can Allah lie to us?
He says Jannatin, two gardens, which means two paradises. And He describe them, to let us know that there is one that is physical and it'll be like this. Of plenty to eat, the healthy food, rich and healthy food, nice soft couches to rest on as the Qur'an says. People don't like the rest on the ground, they do it because they have to, but if they had a nice soft mattress to sleep on they would do it. So G-d said it, we would have all these things. Now those people He was talking to, most of them didn't have any such comforts. In fact none of them in the Qur'an had anything like that. Cause Prophet Muhammad didn't get the rich eople like that to follow him first. He got the poor people, the poorest of the people into his following first. And and mostly Bilalian. Bilalians from Ethiopia and Bilalian slaves. And good people among them, few good people, close relatives. Kadija his wife, Ali his nephew Omar, his friend, Abu Bakr, his friends. So a few close but very few, count him on your hand almost. The rest of 'em were the poor people and slaves, poor people and slaves and some friends from Ethiopia who heard about the religion. They went to Ethiopia looking for refuge in Ethiopia and there some Ethiopians were converted to Al Islam.
So the description of this afterlife is a description that we have to translate for this world is correct. If we believe in Allah, serve Allah, certainly Allah will give us ease in the material life. If He's our G-d and we serve Him, shouldn't he give us the material blessing? Certainly He should. He shouldn't deny it to us and give it to sinners. But Allah says the same thing that He offers us of the material world says He leave it open to sinners.
It says the gates of the material blessings are open to all, the good and the bad. Doesn't mean that everybody going to get it. Among the sinners there are some that can never get the dollar they want. And among the good people, there's some that can never get the dollar they want. They have education, they get skills, they get great knowledge and still can't get the money. Then there's some that have no education, no skill, their fools and they get the money. Good and bad, right? So nobody has control over the wealth, over the getting of wealth except Allah. And that's what the Holy Qur'an says. Says He gives as he deem, as He please. And says, and He holds back as He pleases. He knows what's best for you. He knows how to best develop you, how to best test you and develop you and bring you to where you're supposed to go.
He knows best. So if He doesn't give you and you tried and tried and tried, He has given you the best. Thank Allah. So you find Muslims they say I don't have a job. You ask him say how you feel. He say Alhamduillah. Rather than say I feel disappointed, he says Alhamduillah. Not that he's giving you an answer. He's reminding himself that all Praise due to Allah, whatever Allah has willed for his life at that time. That doesn't mean that we should be satisfied in poverty. Allah has said that we should develop wealth. He says "Seek with everything that you have in your means that G-d has given you. Your strength, your knowledge, everything, the promised home in the end. But but don't forget or don't neglect your part of getting a share of the material world. No, we don't have to guess.
We don't have to guess whether Allah want me to develop myself materially. If Allah want me to develop economically. It's plain, it's in plain language that a fool can't miss it, you see? But at the same time, if I don't get profit from my labor, I'm to say Alhamduillah. If I'm lazy and neglecting to do what I should do then I don't say that's Allah's plan. We don't know yet. We didn't use our legs right? So we don't know yet. Maybe we can't walk or we don't have any legs. So Allah says in the Qur'an "And they struggled and they patiently persevere." Persevere patiently. Allah says in the Qur'an that it is not merely a promise, it's a necessity that I resurrect you and give you another life. It is a necessity. Why is it a necessity? Why is it a necessity?
The human being is not like the stone. The sonet come in the world, nobody takes care of it, it can't complain. It hasn't been given a nature to worry about its shape and its condition and to feel abused if somebody break it. So if the stone is worn away and broken, it doesn't need any special kind of resurrection. But the human being is a creature that registers what happens. And it's cruel and insane to give me a lot of questions on my mind and let me pass and never have the answer. So G-d says that it is a necessity, not just a mere promise, it is a necessity that He resurrect to dead. Not the mentally dead, I mean physically dead. But will we be resurrected as physical beings? Will the physical being stand up like that again? No. That's not the way it happens.
You're resurrected when you sleep, but your body doesn't stand up unless you're sleepwalking. So Allah says that He can resurrect us while we're asleep. And sometimes the dream is so real that we wake up and still think it's really happening. In fact some dreams are more real than life. My senses have been keener in some dreams that there are in real life. So Allah says that He doesn't have to wake up your physical body to wake your conscious up. In the Qur'an Allah says that He takes the souls by night while they are asleep. And you don't have any power to get your soul back. Allah give you your soul back, right? What person knows well now, I got to wake up. Let me wake up, lemme get my conscience back. Now it happens. Somebody wakes you up, noise wakes you up or you just get enough rest and wake up. Something wakes you up, right? You don't have the power to turn the thing to make whatever it is that wake up, you don't have the power to do that. So there's a lot of mysteries in life.
By mystery I mean things that are above human intelligence. They have to be given to us. Understanding have to be given to us by Allah. The human intelligence is not enough. Human Intelligence is only enough when it submits to Allah. Allah says to get some sign of the life after the death, observe the world around you and observe your own self. Do you think that this life came from life? Where did this world come from? The trees, animals, all the life. Where do you think it came from? All the life we have on the earth from death. Before there was life, there was nothing but dead things. So Allah says, What's wrong with these people's minds that they believe that I created these things from the beginning, and made life when there was no life. And doubt that I can give life back again to the thing that already had life. How stupid are they. We either going to believe in religion or not. People in religion say G-d did all this, there was nothing. And He did all this from the beginning, from scratch without anything. But that same G-d can't wake me up again in a new creation. What kind of stupid thinking is that?
The Qur'an says "They laugh at what you say, mock at it, and forget their own stupidity." So the only thing that holds us back from believing in the continuation of life is the fear that we can't face the judgement. That's the only thing that holds us back. The mind accepts it. It's intelligent. Some people beat their brains out forever, trying to escape it, trying to escape it. They will think this, think that, trying to escape, rationalize, trying to escape. Just stop running. Nothing is chasing you but your own weakness. The Holy Qur'an says you will find those that love the life of this world, the material world, rejecting you, rejecting the belief in the hereafter. But if they say yes there is a hereafter, then they have to live daily with the conscience that if I don't improve upon my life, I'm going to reap the consequences of my evil doing.
This is something that we have to overcome. The world has frightened us with their teaching. They haven't given us understanding, with understanding you can overcome those things. The life after death. Alright, we see the dead things come from the ground. We bring a dead mustard seed, or a dead seed from a grape and give it to the scientist, he carries it to his lab and we say, look at it, study it. See if you can discover life in it. He says no, there's no more life in it, it's dead. We take that dead seed and we put it in the ground springtime, and when the water comes and the temperature comes and the sunshine shines, pretty soon the thing that the scientist said was dead has burst into life. Right? We talking scientifically. And Al Islam a scientific religion. Even Allah is proven scientifically. His existence is proven scientifically. Science won't accept it because they are not ready to change their minds. But it is proven scientifically that Allah exists.
Alright. Now if Allah can give life to a dead seed and it once had life in it, didn't it? It was once a part of a living fruit. The fruit was alive, the seed was alive, but the fruit died and it separated from its life, from its life source, it died. The seeds, everything dried up. The seed dried up, turns to nothing but a dead substance. But Allah has placed into that seed something for regeneration, something for rebirth. Now Allah has placed something into this body for rebirth, and when it finds its right temperature and get its water and its sunshine. It's going to burst to life again.
But it won't get water like that water, it needs a different kind of water. Sunshine ain't going be this sunshine. It needs a different kind. But when it gets to the environment for its regeneration, it will rise again. It'll burst into life again. This is the teaching of Al Islam. And it's very easy to understand if we don't fear the burden of our friends. Sometimes it's not the burden of our personal friends that we fear, but we hate to think that people on the job going to have to change course. That mama so-and-so going have to change course. So there a lot of things working in us to make us afraid to acknowledge the eternal, the power of G-d to bring life back again. Now let's look at something else. Let's look at ourselves. Allah says that He is the one who brings the life out of the dead, the living, pardon me, out of dead matter or out of the dead and dead things out of the living.
When we look at the earth agriculture, we see life growing out of dead matter, right? When we look at ourselves flesh, that's plant. When we look at death, we see dead matter growing out of living matter. The hair is dead now, which has no life,it's dead. It's not living like grass, it's dead. Grass is living. This is dead. There's a difference. So the hair has no life. The truth of it, when you cut grass off, it dries up, it changes. Cut hair off, it stays in the same. Because it's dead already. The fingernails are dead, cut the finger off, it won't die. It stays the same because it's already dead.
Now science will tell us that all the body is dead, no skin on your body is alive except me. All the skin on the surface is dead, all of it. So what are you? You a living creature that's growing dead things outside of you, right? And there's a dead that's growing living things outside of it. You see how Allah do things in so many ways so that you don't have no excuse. He's already showed you that I can do anything. I can make dead from living, I can make living from dead. I can make life from fire. I can make life from a lightning bug. I don't have to burn anything. So Allah shows us in so many ways that He has power over everything. Then He reaches the inner being his soul, his conscience. And if you have a little faith, He can show you wonders. Just a little faith and Allah will show you wonders in your own life. So what excuse do we have to disbelieve in Allah?
Okay, when this is lost it goes back to where it came from. Where it came from? It came from the earth. Where did I, the person in the body come from? You might say, well you came from the earth too. I came from the earth in my biological makeup, I came from the earth in my mental makeup, my intelligence, my intelligence and these things that make up what's called a psyche. All of this is from the earth. Either from the ground or from the top. But there is something in me that is a person that has personal taste, personal choices, that even if it didn't know anything, it has a hunger, an appetite, a will to grow. Right? Alright, so this, where does this come from? Allah created it. It's not dependent upon the physical earth. If it was, it would have to stay subject to the physical earth.
Does that make sense? It would have to stay subject to the physical earth. What do I mean by that? I couldn't develop any will power to love something more than I love the earth if the earth was really my origin, my original nature. No how could I? My whole nature, everything would be pulling toward the earth. But there's something in me from the time I started living, something start pulling me away, right? I want to know more. This ain't nothing for me. From the time I come into this world, something is pushing me to say this ain't enough. I want more, I want more. And we go on wanting more and more and more and more. And you're never satisfied by the material world. There are people who made their goal in life wealth, to get rich. They got rich and they say it didn't make them happy in life.
So Allah creates, He says create us, and form us in the womb of our mothers, from semen, the blood, the fetus lump, well-formed body covered with skin, and then complete with hair. Then He says then He begins another creation. See how the Qur'an says in this book, every question has been attended. Now think how in the world that small book, this really, this is a lot of paper. The book is not this big. So they said how in the world this small book attend all of our questions? Only if Allah has done it. A fool talks a whole lot of words. But the more he talks you know there just words, right? Alright. Okay. So it says in this book all the questions thing that's been attended. Think about this now. G-d says that He has created us physically and then after He created us physically in our mothers womb, He began another creation. Look how powerful it is in divine power, in divine method.
It's saying to the scientists, it's saying to the secular minded world, you haven't been birthed. Actuall you are separate from this life and really your creation doesn't even begin until after you're finished here. But now it's asking the question but also reminding the fool. Lemme show you where it's going. It answers the question by saying the actual being is not formed with the forming of the physical body. The physical body is formed as a container, as an environment. Some babies get diseases and they have to put 'em in these tubes right. They have to make the proper environment to save that child. So they make the proper environment to save that child. The proper environment has to be created to save this human being.
He can't live in anything. He has to have certain flesh and blood and certain things. He need all these things. So Allah is giving him all he needs to express himself in this world. But Allah says in Qur'an, after this is formed, then begins another creation. That's the creation of your personality. The baby is born but the personality comes later. And the personality in China will be Chines. And if he's American, the American personality. If he's in Clara Muhammad's house, they will develop that personality. So that childs personality will develop accordingly. Okay so it will differ from country to country, from house to house, from individual to individual. Finally it come down to the individual's unique personality. That's all. Ain't nobody else got it. It's all his own, nobody else get it.
So this is the beginning of a personality after the body is formed. Then G-d, He's saying to the physical minded people that you have missed. You haven't even seen that even in your own world there are two lives, that your life is two. Your physical being and that's not you. it's only a means to containing you and expressing you and receiving messages from the world. Now here I make you again a new creature. Is that right? Okay. Okay. Now G-d is saying to the wise that, He challenges the wise. He's saying you don't believe in something I'm promising you and you don't see that it has already happened in your own life.
But for the ignorant people he answers directly. H tells them. He says that if you were something hard to resurrect, then look at the creation itself. All of it's just creation. he can do what He wants. Tell them, I can resurrect even their very fingertips. Now at that time, we didn't know that the fingertips was really a mean for identifying the person. At that time they didn't have any fingerprint tester. They didn't have that back then. Allah says, I even reproduce the likeness of that very fingerprint, those lines, same line, all the same lines. He didn't say He would do it. He said tell them I can do it. I can even produce the very likeness of their fingertips.
You want produce the fingertips. The physical fingertip will never be produced. It's going back to the earth. You don't need that. You need that in this world. The next world you'll need something else deal with. Voice goes well here, right? Put you in a vacuum, you talk, we can't hear you. I could be seated right by you. We don't need these things for a new creation. We need what the new creation will take. We ain't talking about falsehood, we are not talking about imagination. We are talking about reasonable things. And Allah has not promised us anything that's unreasonable. If Allah was promising us something that is unreasonable, then He would be going against our nature because He has given us the nature to reason. For people in religion that tell you ain't supposed to be teaching this, they wrong. They ain't being supposed to be teaching. In fact, one of the names of the Holy Qur'an is the the book that explains. That's one of the names of the Holy Qur'an. So everything has to explained. And it says in the Holy Qur'an, this book has explained in detail. Don't fear to die, don't fear death. If Allah has not made this life too terrible for you, then that means that your resurrect ain't going to be too terrible.
Now if you were going to get a real terrible punishment, you'll be facing a bit of it now. He said, I don't wait until you die, He said I give you some measure now. And in the next you'll be given your full measure. You got about three houses now. home about three houses. Justice must prevail, justice must prevail. Allah must execute justice. There's a sucker took $10 from me, and all I had is $10 to live on for a month. He raped your daughter and he pushed the blind woman 84 years old down the stairs. And then he get hit by a car and you going to tell me that's not justice? I tell you why Prophet Muhammad was successful. Why Moses was successful. Why all the Prophets were successful. They cause they did what they had to do. Jesus was successful. He did what he had to do. Jesus wasn't sent to make the world right. He was set as a sign. And he established a powerful sign.
Moses was set to do a job he did it. Prophet Muhammad was sent to do a job. He did it. Why? Because he believed all the way. And that's why G-d blessed him like that. Because they believe all the way. And their followers who joined them, those who loved them and followed them, they believed all the way. Nothing could stop them. They went to battle against people who hated them. And remember Prophet Muhammad was not one that went to battle to make people believe in Al Islam that didn't want to believe in Al Islam. The Holy Qur'an says the way is open. Let him who have a will come, those who don't have a will let them go.
And it says again that their is no compulsion in religion. You're not to compel people to believe. So the Holy Qur'an is still setting people to exercise their own will. So how could anybody say Prophet Muhammad forced anybody to be Muslim? He never forced anybody to be Muslim. But he fought first to let those people who wanted to be Muslim let them be Muslim. Why you holding them back from this? Let them go. That's all he did. And because he was taking away their slaves, the poor ignorant people they were using, they got mad at him and they came out to battle them. And the believers in battle with them told them, said we love death more than you love life. People that tell you they love death more than you love life, you going to be running in the other direction. They didn't mean that they loved to die more than they loved to live.
They were telling them that we love life with Allah more than we love life in this world. That's what they were saying. And the Holy Qur'an says "Die so that you can live." It doesn't mean die physically It means die to this world so you can become alive. You're dead. You are not really alive. The life that you have is not really lifee. You don't know the good life. Die to alll these things that you're living for and come to life, it'll make you the most strongest person on this earth. He says that the life continues, it's continuing. You come into the life while you are this earth in your physical body. And when your physical body dies, that life will still be waiting for proper time, the proper season, the proper time for Allah to bring it back into a higher phase of evolution. Now we are going to talk a little bit, talk about the law of reward and punishment, reward and punishment. Allah has given us things to believe in because Allah wants our nature to grow and grow and grow. The most important thing about the human being is the human nature. In fact, the most important thing about anything is its nature. Alright, let's talk about that a little bit.
The nature of a bird is to take to the wind, not to stay on the ground walking, right? It's made first to walk, but it's nature is not to stay there. It's nature is to take the wind in order to fly. The nature of the female bird is to make a nest. So you know the nature of the bird, that's the nature of the bird. Can the bird come out of her nature? Everything else we see in the creation has a nature and it does not come out of it's nature. There is one creature that Allah wants to earn his reward so that he will know his reward.
And we are a part of this whole physical world. The dead matter, the living matter animals and everything. And the truth of that is that I eat from this world. I eat plants, I eat animals, I drink the liquid, I take the air, the light comes into me, everything comes into me. So if Allah take one creature and gave him an understanding, He has done it for the whole world. He has done it for the whole world. I don't mean that He did it for the rabbit, that the rabbit understood it. But the rabbit is dignified by what was done to me because the rabbit is a part of my world.
Now say if I was made President today, Chief Minister of United States, my hand will stop being the hand of life and start being the hand of the President of the United States. You find people that look at my hand and they see the President, they look at my hat, the President. So because I became President, everything that's a part of me became President. Alright, so if the human being comes to his great dignity, everything in the creation shares the dignity. The physical earth. It only represents a lower level in the development of who I am. That matter was growing to before me. So that matter has become me. So we in our limited knowledge, our limited knowledge, we say it's not just for G-d to give that to the human being.You can only ask as much as your mind can dream of.
If I give you more than you ask, how just would that be? Allah has dignified the whole creation by dignifying every part of it. This word Qadr means power. The working in nature because there's ordinance in political language. means law, right? Ordinance in theological language means an overriding law. Am I correct? An overriding law. A law that works in creation, the ordinance of G-d. It touches everything. Everything. So this is the measure of Allah. We have to believe in it. We believe that this has measurement. Three measurements they call it sometime. They call it power. Call it ordinance. A law working in the creation. it's called power too. That's good too, okay. It works in the creation and it works to bring what you like. G-d has given it goodness and He has given it hurt. He has given it it's hurt and hell, goodness and suffering, pleasure and pain. Good and evil. Shar means evil. It means powerful and hurtful things that you don't like. So Allah has put into this Qadr, Khair and Shar. So the Shar doesn't come out of Allah. Only thing that come out of Allah is goodness. And it doesn't come out Him like the milk come out of the body. It comes by His commandment, it's oriented. He doesn't diminish himself. If we pour milk out of the bottle, pretty soon it's going to run dry. Allah is no such thing. That's creation. That's the nature of creation, not the nature of the creator. Now let's see, in this creation is good. Khair, help, help, good treasure, et cetera. It also is Shar, evil. Pain, et cetera. You understand? How do we get the same? By using it as Allah intended. So if we use it as a Allah intended, we get the Khair. That means Allah doesn't give in Shar.
We bring the Shar on ourselves. Is that right? But He put it in there so that if you don't like the Khair, you can yourself the Shar. He didn't want you to have the Shar, He wants you to have the Khair You understand? The goodness of G-d that comes to us through His creation, through ourselves, everything. It's in everything. And if we misuse it, it brings the bad consequences. Is alcohol bad? We say the pig. There is a saying among the so called Orthodox Muslims.I say so called because I don't like no Orthodox. There's only Muslim. There's a saying Jesus is going to come back with a sword, long sword as long as the world and he's going to come down on the dome of the Masjid in Jerusalem. He's going to start turning like this with that sword. And as he turns, crossess are going be knocked down, and pigs are going to be slain.
Why slay the pig? That's a tough problem we have. We killing the pig. Let them live. They serve a good purpose. If they didn't have a need for those who need them, Allah wouldn't have created them. There's a need for them. We can't see what Allah see. But they're doing some job in the earth, that their job. That's right. If they invade my house, I'll get 'em out of the house. Don't just take them off the earth. Allah put them on the earth. He didn't put it in my house. So everything that Allah has made is honorable.
You can understand that Allah has not created anything bad. So how can a Caucasian be bad? Isn't he created? Oh no, he was grafted. Should we start destroying grapefruit because they were grafted. Although we know the Caucasian is not grafted. Caucasian just born just like everybody else. It just happened to be born in the area of the earth that gets very little sunshine. So it takes about 2 billion years to plan him. It takes about 2 million years to plan the person born in Africa. The Honorable Elijah Muhammad, he gave us that too. He said we get our color from the sun.
We get our color from the sun that mean the sun gave me this darkness. You get your nappy hair from the sun too. You find people that cover their hair up outside all the time they hair look thin. The Africans never cover their hair. You go to India, they wear, their hair all covered up all the time. The sun will silver your hair in time. Not no one generation, not a million generations, but in time in the hot sun with your bare head, the sun is going to silver that hair. So we were the one walking around out walking around the wilderness to obey G-d. He wasn't put on that cover.
The climate that we came up in, it wasn't such an aggravation in our life. But we had to produce something artificial. Dry heat is terrible. Dry heat burning and burning, little moisture, you get dry, you can get a sun stroke. You know that. You go there and see the Arabs and see if they walk around without protecting themselves from the sun. Now you go over there and walk around there. And even with your African head this time of year, it's alright. So you go there June, July, August with your bare head, you will regret it. That son will kill you, burn your brains out. So you find very few people from Arabia come out at noon time with nothing over their head, don't have something over their head. And white is the best, because white reflects the rays.
The Caucasian is only people on earth that was sold a doctrine for the takeover of the world. They were sold a doctrine that was designed for the take takeover of the world. They were people who were cut out for it. They were cut out to buy that doctrine. We weren't. We had experienced real power in Ghana, in many parts of Africa. The African people had already experienced great power. There was a time when they were great masters in that time of the world. They were the great masters. And another thing, those people were not frightened by the looks of a Caucasian. They had already seen white bodies. They had come along living in Africa. But the Caucasian, many of them had never seen a black body. You know that. But many had come, Caucasians had come to Africa, and the Africans had seen the Caucasian. We weren't frightened, but the Caucasian was frightened.


