05/26/1976
IWDM Study Library
The Plane of the Prophets

By Imam W. Deen Mohammed
Speaker:
This is the man, with the wisdom, with the knowledge to change the whole makeup of the whole world. So, sit back, open your ears, open your mind, and let truth come in, The honorable Wallace D. Mohammed
IWDM:
Thank you so much. Thank you so much.

In the name of Allah, the Beneficent, the Merciful. May the peace and the blessings be upon Muhammad forever, ameen. I greet you and the greetings of all the prophets from Adam to Muhammad. As salaam alaykum! We're very happy to be here today on a beautiful sunny day to keep moving in the path of progress. A progress that means salvation for the rejected of the world and the most rejected among all the rejected of the world has been and still is, the black American. We have always, we have news to give you. In the olden days, the religious message was called news and the gospel of Jesus was called the Good news. And if a man stands up and says he has something from Almighty G-d to give the people, it should be news. And if it is not news, then he couldn't say his from Almighty G-d. What we have to tell each other might not be news.

(He might not)Really given us any news. And he can't really be a messenger or an Imam from Almighty G-d. We lived in this part of the world under Christian rule for over three centuries. And finally the message of Islam came to us and for the first time a message having news in it was airing our ears, Christ born and crucified to save the world - that was a message that we were very much used to, when the message of Islam reached us. And even when we received it as slaves in the South, it was already old news. Jesus brought it about 2000 years ago and when we first received it in the Southland as slaves, it was already about 1700 years old almost. So that wasn't news. I bet it was old news, but we as a people, we were as much in need, of fresh need from All Mighty G-d, as any people had ever been. We were in need of hearing G-d speak to us, to answer questions, that only G-d can answer, if there is a G-d? Questions like, what happened to me, that caused me to be separated from loving, kind, caring mothers, and father? What has happened in my history to put me in America under slave masters who despised my very being? Who treat me as though I've committed some great sin or some great evil against them? Who hate my very presence, who treat my skin blackness as though it was a curse is a curse? These are questions that were formed into the minds of our fathers and mothers during the history of slavery here in America. And no other people on the pages of human history had ever been as much in need of an answer from heaven as were our mothers and fathers during the bitter days of enslavement in the South. I have often said, and I repeat it here today because it can't be said enough, if Jews have a claim to prophethood, if they have a claim to a personal savior, if they have a claim justifying them to be called the people that G-d spoke to and that G-d himself answers, that our claim is better, our claim is stronger. After the Jews, there were the Arabs who were found bickering with each other, fighting against each other, enslaving their women, worshiping males and keeping only a limited number of females so the population wouldn't die out, and killing female girls, at birth in preference of male sons. But there is nothing in their history that make them any more worthy of receiving an answer from divine source than the American slaves. No other people in history were robbed of their identity and made to accept themselves, that they were less than human beings and made to reject themselves as equal beings with others. Made to hate themselves, despise themselves, so much so that they made physical efforts to erase their identity with hair processes, hot straightening combs, bleaching cremes, who started changing their speech to sound like Frenchman or anybody else other than a black American. Nobody else has ever been turned against themselves, and driven to hate and despise the very image of their own make. Nobody, but the Black American. So if cruelty and mistreatment, heartache and suffering on the earth is what warrants a response from heaven, then G-d must answer the Black American. If G-d doesn't answer the Black American, then we are justified to say there is no G-d. If there is a G-d, he would have to answer the need of the black American. No other people in the history of humanity were ever cut off completely from all traditional knowledge.

There have been people who have had their nature destroyed by the conquerors, had their nation burned up and they had to go back, once they got free enough to begin writing history again, they had to go back and collect their history again from memory. But in our case, it was hopeless. There was no way for us to get back in touch with our traditional knowledge because we had been separated physically from our land and from our ancestors, and we had been raised as children to believe and accept everything that the slave master gave us. We were told who we are, by the white man. We were told where we came from, by the white man. That land was described to us, by the white man. The people were described,, by the white man. Every ounce of knowledge came from the white man. No other people has a history like that, but you and me, the black Americans. We are the only people, I repeat, that have been so firmly separated from their past and from their people that there was no hope of getting anything of their own unless it came through those who had conquered them,

The Jews, they were taken off into captivity, according to the Bible. And I say according to the Bible, there's no history except Bible to support the Jews claim. All the Jews claim rest on us, accepting that they really are truthful people and if we don't accept that they're truthful people, then they don't have anything to begin there. They say that they were taken into captivity, made slaves, but that history of that captivity also tells us that they kept their own knowledge. They remembered their G-d, they remembered their forefathers, they remembered their culture, so they weren't separated from their real strength. The real strength of a people is the knowledge of that people. And as long as the people can hold onto their knowledge, they have a saving choice or a saving power. But once they're separated completely from their knowledge, they have nothing to save them at all. Because people are made. and destroyed by knowledge. I didn't come to you to charm you, to get you excited. I came here because we have news. We have news every day, every minute of the day, and it so happens that we are the favored people.



