01/18/1975
IWDM Study Library
FOI Class NYC
Pt. 4

By Imam W. Deen Mohammed
All right now, let's go back to that body I was talking about. See, the master came here, we call him a master. A master is given that name or that title is given to men over a school in the old world, is that right?
Crowd: Yes.
They call a master because they over the school. It means the strongest one in the knowledge, over that school. He's the headmaster, the schoolmaster. When we refer to master WF Muhammad, we're referring to his superior knowledge. When the master came and discovered Honorable Elijah Muhammad, I say discovered Honorable Elijah Muhammad. I hope you heard me. I'm going to leave it right there with brother minister. When he came and discovered Honorable Elijah Muhammad, yes, he knew where to go to. He knew to come to the lost found sleeping dead, but he was looking for a particular person. When he found him, he discovered him although, he was looking for him. Hope you understand. You were looking for the truth? When you found it, you discovered truth, didn't you? All right, you were looking for truth. When you found it, you knew that was the truth you were looking for, but you still discover truth. You discover truth and you're still discovering truth. The Honorable Elijah Muhammad is still being discovered too.
Master W Fard Muhammad came and discovered the Honorable Elijah Muhammad. When he discovered him, he discovered an open receiver! An open receiver that he could talk into without worrying about too much fallout. Sometimes when you're talking to a thing, it grasps so much and a whole lot of it fall on out. But he found in the Honorable Elijah Muhammad a receiver that had a magnetism to it. That it didn't only open in here, but it had magnetic attraction. Reaching out, gathering all the fallout so that nothing would escape.
So, master WF Muhammad who was looking over the talking and looking over the people he was talking to, he saw that all the rest were experiencing fallout. They had ears that were limited. The power of those ears was not divinely tuned. He discovered in the Honorable Elijah Muhammad an ear that didn't permit any fallout, so he said, "This is my man, this is my man." The book says that he made his man from the dust of earth. The black people were the dust of the earth. They weren’t regarded as mineral. They weren’t regarded as organic life. The world expected and cherish organic life. They bring a flower plant and put it in the window seal. They protect fruit tree. They water and look out for the lawn. But here is a man that's less than organic life. Nobody waters him. Nobody weeds the weeds from around him. Nobody puts fresh soil and fertilizer around his roots. They just let him die and fallout. So, then the Honorable Elijah Muhammad, he says, "I see dust." They have certainly reduced him to dust, but in this dust, I see the germ of organic life. In this dust, I see minerals precious as rubies and pearls and diamonds. They just need to be breathed upon so that they crystallize out of dust, and instead of a handful of dust, a handful of precious jewels. Instead of a handful of dust, a handful of potent life. Not just any plant. Not just any tree, but I see in this dust, the tree of Islam. Not the tree of old Islam, the tree of new Islam with power to stretch its branches out over hell, over the opposition. From the church, from the synagogue, from the educational institutions, from government, and most of all, over the powerful force of darkness and ignorance that exists among whites and black of America. I see in this dust the Honorable Elijah Muhammad and his people, all of these germs, for I'm going to breathe. All it needs to do is come in contact with something of its nature. My skin is different, my hair texture is different, my walk of life is different, but my inward self is no different than this that I know exists latent, or sleeping, dormant in this dust. So, I'm going to do what Ezekiel did. Ezekiel had bones to work with. He breathed on dry bones and those dry bones started moving towards each other. All they needed was a little life or just a little bit of life, a little energy turn myself role a little bit, and then nature is to gravitate toward each other. Ezekiel breathed on these bones and they came together. The man had been dismembered, he had rotted away, his image had rotted away from him. All that was left was the bone. What is the bone a symbol of in the man? Bone is the symbol of the craving in the man for G-d his origin, his source. You see?
In the Bible, G-d is called a stone, a rock, and the bones of man are also the symbol of G-d in that man. It means that the man had been broken down. All that he had gained from the world had been destroyed, rotted from him, and taken from his bones, you see? All that that he had gained from mother had been taken away.
All that was left were the fundamental rights in the man, that connects him with his origin. You see? You understand me. You follow me. All right, most of you do. I know you do. He is going all the way with me because he understands the scripture. He reads the scripture and knows what I'm talking about, you see? All praise is due to Allah.
It says that Ezekiel was supposed to breathe on these bones. Breathe means give, put it in contact with active life again. This mind has become dry bones and skeletons. Nothing in this mind but a suspicion that G-d is somewhere, must be somewhere. For me, He must be somewhere, if not for anybody else, got to be somewhere for me, you see?
Yes. Nothing but that is existing in the man's mind, but when the active life of truth comes and breathes these words of wisdom and struck those bones. See, the bones are necessary to receive the flesh that the words of divine truth will put on. I mean, you have to have a craving in you, a thirst in you. You have to miss your connection with divine being.
If you still suffer the separation from Divine Source, and from Divine Being, then Brother, you are ready to accept flesh upon your bones. When the breath come upon you, the flesh will begin to cover those bones. But if you have become like the cavy , taking this wonderful work of the heavens and the earth for granted, taking his own humble and simple beginning from the womb of a mother to a baby laying around unable to do anything for itself, and then to a baby crawling around and finally stumbling around, finally growing up big enough so that mother can walk away from it a few hours, then finally getting big enough to play with boys and to go outside of the house, finally getting big enough so that the mother can trust it to protect her, finally gets big enough to sit on society as the head of society and dictate the order that society should take.
Then he forgets all of that and says, "The sun rising and setting means nothing. The rain falling means nothing. The fish and the animals of the land mean nothing. Nothing means anything, only as I choose to see it and interpret it." That's not our nature. That's the nature of the grafted man. That's the nature of a man who only knows how to speak in concrete terms. He is still playing with blocks, ABC blocks.
He still recognizes only pictures and solid objects like these books, but he can't see into the invisible forms that make it possible for these forms to manifest to the eye. He's studying in it school, and he come out and he tells us that when your physical eye sees an object, the physical eye sees the object upside down, but the mind has the nature to turn that object upright so that you see it upright.
He studied the camera, and studied the eye, designed the camera after the eye, and knows that his own physical eye sees things upside down. Then he'll tell you there's nothing beyond the physical. The Honorable Elijah Muhammad said, "We manifest the physical ourselves." Is that right? After manifesting the physical, we grew up out of the physical. You say then the physical is superior to us. No.
A rabbit from the womb of its mother grows to be stronger than the mother. A child from the womb of its mother grows to protect and provide for the safety of that mother. No, no. The womb is not the superior. The womb is a birthplace. Birthplace is not the end, brother. The product of the womb is the end. The being that comes out of the womb lives to rule over the womb.
A woman is more than a womb, but a woman is the womb of every man. That's why she's called "wo-man". It means the womb of man. You see? Now, this earth itself is a womb. It's a womb. A womb that was manifest. There is energy, right? Then energy energizes. Is that right? Then when energy energize, then we have the energized. Out of the energized, comes energy. Is that right? All right.
In the beginning, there was an energizer. That energizer energized this physical world. Out of the energized physical world came us, energy. All right. When energy comes from the energized, energy has the power to energize. Right? All right. All right now. You should be ready. The Honorable Elijah Muhammad has been working as a potter forming your clay for over 40 years now.
We know that 40 years is a lifetime. Is that right? The Holy Quran says of the Muhammad, it says as an argument to those that will challenge his reputation or challenge his words, his dignity, says that he has lived a lifetime among you. 40 years is a lifetime. It means that before he even got the first revelation, he had lived a lifetime among you. Do you see that? All right. I'd rather leave it right there.
I went into it without knowing that I was going into that big thing, brother. I just have to stop right there. Well, let's get back now. Let's get back to what we're talking about here. The Honorable Elijah Muhammad says we came out of triple darkness. The physical world is a womb, and we know that it the physical world that blocks out light. We know that all darkness is a shadow of something physical. We know that. Alright, we come out of the physical womb which is darkness, is physical darkness. We come out of this, but we are the same germ that existed in its origin, but we are not permitted to know just how the womb was and just how we were formed in it. We're not permitted to know that. We just are permitted to come out of it. As we come out of it, we are permitted to gradually grow into wisdom, knowledge, and understanding of it. Not to go back and see how it was made, but to improve upon what we have found. Isn't this a wonderful G-d? He doesn’t want us backing up. Take too long to back up in time to the beginning and spend our time looking at what was done, he did it rightly. He did what he had to do, he did his job well. We don't have to back up in time and review what he did, that will hold us up. He wants us to take over from here and keep going. He won't even let us see what he was doing, knowing that we are weakling to begin with. We are popping up out of the womb without the ability to even know the womb. We have to get acquainted with the womb. We have to learn that it is the womb. After learning that it is the womb, then we say this is akin to me.
I'm putting concepts into your mind that you need. This world is akin to me. My flesh feeds upon it. My flesh is just another form of this earth, I have to feed it. I have to give the best of the physical environment provided for it if I expect it to remain healthy, and strong and live a long time, but I have discovered now that I am a creature superior to the food that I eat. I eat but I'm superior to what I eat. I eat meat to sustain my meat. I eat bread, and fruits, and vegetables to sustain my meat, my blood, and my bones, and my hair. But I discovered that I'm superior to my food. I have a hunger for more than beans, and rice, and meat, and vegetables. I have a hunger for connection. I have a hunger for reunion. I want to connect myself with my brother, I want to flow as water or ether into the being of my brother, and I want to communicate mentally, morally, and spiritually with my brother. I want to have fellowship and intercourse with my sister. I want to connect myself with a voice that I hear speaking behind the sunlight. I want to connect myself with a voice that I hear speaking behind the ocean waves, behind the tumbling of the earth, behind the falling of rain, behind the accumulation of ice, behind the coming of winter, summer, spring, and fall.

I sense that there is something speaking to me behind these things that I'm akin to, but trillions and trillions and trillions of years of separation have made me dull to understanding the language of my origin. We rise above the matter with new matter. We rise and stand over common matter and we walk on earth like a ruler. Even though we don't have a house to live in, we may not have a car to ride in, we may not have a suit of clothes to walk in. We might be walking in our overall or jeans or something, but we walk as a ruler on the earth. We know that if we continue to be alive to this reality, this newly discovered reality, pretty soon I'm going to be walking in Edmund Clap shoes. Hickey Freeman. Pretty soon I'm going to be riding on a rubber and sitting in a palace. In time I'm going to sit in the king's seat. Yes, why not? Why not? We know this because we have found a connection. A connection with something that goes just a little bit above food. Though we need food, we need clothes, we need shelter, but we have discovered that all of these things are just requirements. They're just part of an environment for divine being. What is a man really? Is a man 5 ft 7", 165 pounds? Brown complexion? Kinky hair? Is that a man? That can be a man and it can be nothing. It can be a man and it can be a worm, not knowing how to distinguish his head from his tail, looking in the mirror and seeing one thing. Then it can be a man looking in the mirror and seeing feet and leg, and body, heart and lung, and brain sitting up there on top. With a mind in there dictating to his inferior organ. Or he can be a creature that can't distinguish between his tail and his head like a worm. He can be a creature that loves darkness, the challenge of light is too much for him, so he crawls burrows a hole and rests like a worm and stay in there and looks gray and lifeless. We look at some of our black brothers and the shine of life is not on their face, there's a great cast letting us know that brother's dead, he's a walking corpse. Because he has failed to come alive to the reality of his being, that he's not simple matter, he is not the created, but he is of the creator. He was not created to be subject and limited by the creation. He was created to rule and to expand, and to extend, and to unfold creation as a man opening a mighty gigantic book. Revealing knowledge, wisdom, and understanding with every turn of the page. We read in the Holy Quran it speaks of the mother book. The creation is the mother book. The grafted world has tried to work with the mother book. They have turned pages and brought out gunpowder. They have turned pages and brought out petroleum to run machines. They have turned pages and brought out methods to produce steel to make great structures reaching up to the clouds, but in all their turning of the pages, they have failed to see that what they're turning is pages and that there is a writer of the book. That there is an execution of the knowledge that you get out of the book that goes beyond playing with two pieces of steel. Brother, we are blessed. We are blessed to be formed divinely. 50,000 years in the jungles of Africa being rained upon, the sun burning us, kinking our hair because it was unattended, kinking our hair because the heat was strong. Kinking our hair because moisture and heat and the lack of care causes the hair to bend with the heat, so the hair bends with the heat. You know babies don't come out with nappy hair. The nappies head baby come out with a softer head than what develops later. That's a sign to us that in the beginning the hair was soft, but standing up under the first conditions in the jungles of Africa, that sun took the light fluffy hair and compacted it, made strong wool cords out of delicate fragile silk. Made something strong to endure the harshness of that heat and that moisture in the jungles of Africa. Broaden the nose so that the features of the man would be so pronounced and a quick glance reveals a man. Not a small nose monkey with this little thing there and two holes but a broad nose up there. Let me know this is no monkey. Kinky woolly hair letting us know right away that this is not the ape, his hair is straight. This is not the soft man, this is the superior man. Not that he was superior then, but the physical attribute had to be stamped on him first. So that when the mental attributes establish themselves, we can talk to the physical attributes and say, "Look at here. G-d designed this man and in his very physical design." We see a message saying that this is the man, this is the man. His broad mouth, the structure of his face is pronounced. They're no quite features on his face. You can't miss the mark of a human being on him. A human being is marked with a mouth and his mouth is pronounced. The human being is marked with a nose and his nose is pronounced. The human being is marked with the eyes and his eyes are pronounced. They don't sit back behind hairy eyebrows hiding like the eyes of an animal.

