02/07/1977
IWDM Study Library
The Christ Movement: Part 3

By Imam W. Deen Mohammed


IWDM:	Anytime you can't make decisions that you know are right, fearing that this woman ain't going to give you none tonight, you have put your head down there. Your mind has become your sex organ. Your sex organ has taken over the kingdom of your head. You understand? Anytime that you can't make proper and right decisions in your home for fear that that woman ain't going to sleep with me tonight you have given up your manhood. You have given up your life. You have killed yourself and become nothing but a sex organ. That's right, it ain't your fault. It's the devil's fault. It's that group of conspirators fault that put these crazy ideas into our life about sex and about our own human nature. It's their fault.

	But once you completely understand this, you're supposed to rise it above that man. Look, I don't think you can find a husband in Chicago any more agreeable than I have with my life. I got a wife man, I hope it don't get out. But, I got a wife that will test you man, I'm telling you she'll test you. She will test you I mean in every way. If you ain't excellent, I mean excellent she'll have people running right out the door, right off the planet if you could find a way off. I'm telling you. Now, she's got her beautiful side too, sweet and beautiful side but she ... Wherever she finds happiness she's got to test it, and she keeps, she never give up. Keeps picking and picking, and picking and picking, and I try to satisfy her as much as possible. How much is that? As much as my God guidance to me will permit.

	God has given me guidance. He told me that there's certain things that I can't do if I'm going to please him. I'm not going to do those things to please no woman. Alright, so when I can't please her, I can't please her. She get upset. Sometimes she says, "That ain't no law, you use that law as an excuse." But, I can't prove it to her. Look, nah now look, I can't prove it to her. That's what she see and what she believes. I can't prove to this woman, that woman I am doing this for Allah. "Well that's just you, you don't have to do that. All of the, Allah don't say you have to do that." But the holy Qur'an is just a guideline. That lists the principles. If I see the principles apply in this area, I have to obey that principle.

	It is woman, she hasn't studied the holy Qur'an like me. She say, "Oh that's just your decision, the holy Qur'an I've read it, it don't say that." "But you haven't studied it like I have done it. You don't know it like I know it. I know that it says I shouldn't do this. In principle, whether it says it in actual language or not, okay". Alright so she say, "Allah, you just using Allah as an excuse, you don't want to do this for me." That's it. She'll go until the sun turns into a snowflake and fall on my head. Let me tell you, now she can cry all she wants, but I repeat she won't change me until the sun turn to a snowflake and falls on my head. Until God let's go his control on me.

	But as long as I'm obedient and earn God's control over my life, see God ain't going to control our life unless we want it, 100%. We have to want it 100%, he's not going to control our life if we have half made up, half our mind is made up. We still want to do this you know, but we're asking God to change this but the inclination is still there you know. Look, the inclination will always be in the flesh and in all these things. But, once the will is determined, completely made up I hope God weigh on me. I want to follow his way, I want his control over every atom in my being. Over every thought. Once you come to that decision and you ask for it, most likely you'll get it.

	God will be the control in your life. When he becomes that control in your life, he's not going to let you go until you change your will. As long as you keep that will he ain't going to let you go. I know that's the will I have, and he ain't going to let me go until I give up this will, and I don't believe I'll give up this will. Ever, you understand ever because I know too much about it now. I had it too long. Maybe I would've given it up about ten years ago. But, no no not now. You should be the same way. Don't make a lot of ill in your house. Don't jump up and curse. Spit all over the place, clinging the piano. Kick you money jar over and beat up the little children. Go and slap the wife down. Beat her all up, don't do that.

	Be intelligent. Be well disciplined. Do what you got to do for Allah's sake. Every time anger start rising in you remember, say "Wally", well you're name's something else. Say, "Wally I made this choice, this decision I'm telling this woman this to please Allah." Don't say it to her say it in your own mind. "I'm telling this woman this to please Allah, and she's rejecting it but she's not rejecting me. She's rejecting Allah and my duty is only to tell her what Allah is moving in me. Okay." Alright, so she's rising up against you but actually that's not you, you have given yourself, you ain't even mad no more. You've stepped out of that position. You put Allah there right. Alright.

	When you found out what Allah wanted, you gave up to Allah, so you ain't there Allah is there. If they woman attack you, she ain't attacking you she's attacking what Allah wants and she's attacking Allah. You understand? In the form of his guidance she's attacking him. Don't you be upset, think you have to win an argument with her. You don't have to win no argument with that woman just tell her in a fine voice, "Hey baby I ain't going to let you bring no whiskey in here," or "Baby, I ain't going to let you bring no pork in here," or "Baby I ain't going to let your friends come in here and eat pork in my house, this is a Muslim house." You understand? Or "Baby, I ain't going to let you go out with those whores." If you know a woman is a filthy no good scowl. If it's known, I'm not talking about what you suspect.

	But if you know others know that this woman is a whore or a prostitute or an undesirable woman tell your wife. "Well I can have my friends, I ain't doing it." Tell her, "Woman I'm not going to have it. Allah is against that." "Where does Allah say that I can't have a woman, a street woman as my friend? As long as I ain't doing wrong." See in principle the holy Qur'an says, "You should be trying to convert her to Islam, bring her up to the Mosque. If you go with her to the places she go or go sit up in some room and talk with her and ain't talking about Islam trying to bring her to the Mosque, you are out of order." ... "If you're going to have undesirable women at your place baby I want you to know you are doing it against me and it keeps up, our relationship is going to go to part."

	Tell her, tell her. "Baby you'll have to make your choice. bEtween the filthy undesirable company that I see you taking up with, or me." Be a man, don't say it and then ask Allah to defend it. You're trying to please Allah right. Okay when that woman curse you don't say, "Allah, oh Allah help me." Allah already helped you, Allah helped you when he showed you the way, they light. You show Allah that you can help yourself, and that woman say, "Well if that's what you say then you'll just have to get a divorce, you have to leave." We're separated right now, yeah. See, I don't know what to think of me internally or me externally, but you ain't getting nothing else from me externally and all you going to get from me internally is some more guidance from Allah. That's right, that's how I handled the situation.

	"Externally you are through baby until you come around." They talk about putting me on the punishment list. For four or five days. No you don't punish me, I put her on the punishment list. I tell her, "Look go lay by yourself." That's right I go, "Hey this is my bed, you can come in here but you ain't getting nothing." Let me tell you something else, this whole world will make you think that the woman got all the sex to give you. That you ain't got no sex to give her. If you stop trying to hit it when you're supposed to be sleeping, and start hitting it when you're rested, you will have something to give her, as much as she got something to give you. That's right, and let them know you got something to give her. When she start acting like that if they tell you, "Ah, well I don't want you touching me then." "Well then we both going to be doing without baby." That's right tell her. Say, "Well we both going to be doing without. If that's your attitude, how long baby?" She say, "Well, I don't want you touching me tonight." "Well tomorrow night either."

	If she say, "For this week," "Then next week either." That's right you have to be a man. "Oh brother what am I going to do? Look here I'm going to grease my hands and go to work double handed." Hold up now, wait, wait, wait ... Look, I'm as serious as I've ever been, I'm not joking. Believe me I'm as serious as I've ever been. I'm not joking. "Oh that's a beneath me to do something like that." Is she mad? How much more is it beneath you to blow your mind in whole self give up your manhood to a woman who won't be a decent wife to you? How much more will you lower yourself? Don't you know the sin is much less? Go ahead an masturbate, and thank God that you got two hands. Hold up, hold up listen, listen. Thank Allah that you got two hands that are mine that can imagine better things than what she got. Hold up, prove that you can use to rescue you from a woman who's been trying to make a "flame" or a sex dummy out of you. That's right.

	She may have sagging titties, bloating belly, or bony ribs. But you can imagine the best titties in the world. Fellas I'm serious. You may think that I'm being loose or vulgar with you tonight. I'm not being loose and vulgar with you tonight. I'm trying to free you, so you could get your manhood back in your own hands. If you show that woman that your relationship with her is more important for you, a relationship of human being to human being rather than flesh to flesh that woman will start respecting you brother. If you have to masturbate to do that I say masturbate. Don't go out and get another woman, all you going to do then is throw out all the peace in your home make it worse.

	Next thing you lost your family, lost your children, you can't see your children. Children one place you another. Another man raising your children, or a woman raising them, or neglecting your children. You see, why go through all this trouble. You ain't got to go out and look for no other woman. You can't find one as pretty as that when you close your eyes and imagine. That's right, they haven't made a woman finer than the one you could imagine. But isn't that unnatural? Yes. It's unnatural when you want to make a baby. Hold up, hold up. Hold up, if I want to make a baby I want it natural ain't no baby going to be made that way. But if I just want to relieve myself that's natural. Yeah, so you have to understand the difference between having babies and relieving yourself.

	Now if this woman's denying you and you're hurt because you can't have a baby. Maybe they don't want to have a baby. If that's what's moving you, then you keep on begging her until you have a baby. But if that ain't moving you then, and you know that ain't moving you, you go on and do the natural thing and naturally relieve yourself. Look, can you stop yourself from having a wet dream? Is that unnatural because you had a wet dream last night? You don't even have to dream and have a wet dream. Let me explain it to you, sometimes we see ourselves in the act you know, that's a wet dream. Sometimes you don't have no dream or you don't see nothing, and you wake up and your half naked. Sometimes you use the restroom and it happens. You get urine and some come out with the urine. Sometimes there's a sensation that comes with it too, even in urine right.

	Okay, so how come it ain't natural? Nothing unnatural about that. There's noting unnatural about it, don't be ashamed. Now, Jesus said that "He who commits adultery with his mind has committed adultery." Now I warn you against imagining my wife while you're doing that. Don't get no image of my wife now, or my daughter. Somebody that you ain't married to, if you can imagine a new creature you better put your mind on your wife, I don't care how bad she looks. But you know you're  allowed to work with, you can look over there and seek up your up your two [inaudible 00:21:18] a set of busts. You can look way over there on the other side of the world and get you some Chinese legs. Then go over to Africa and get you an African buttocks. Go to Turkey and get you a Turkey stomach. Right, just go all over the world piece by piece, put it all together and you got a woman that belong to you. She ain't nobody's wife.

	Now, I'm not going to hold you anymore now. I'm going to finish, going to finish on this note. Keep peace in the house. Be intelligent, don't let yourself go into a rage. I don't care, I know most of us are, we in a habit of just arguing because we can't hit that woman, so we argue and curse. We get a little mad, we just have to argue and curse and let off some steam, you know. But, don't do that. Talk quietly to her, and remember that this ain't no petty thing between me and her. This thing is between me and my God. You understand? My God don't want me raising and going into a little fit. I tell this woman quietly and intelligently. Put it right. If she don't want it, I'm not going to continue on with her that's it. If she say, "Well, what about last year?" She bringing up something to upset you.

	She going to bring up something to get you into an argument, even though you don't want to get into one. "Well what about last year when you did such and such and such? What about what you said to so and so nigga, and what about the thing that you did that I ain't never did? I forgiven you for that so it goes, and just last week you wasn't S-H-I-T man. Now all of a sudden you holy holier than this, you going to go be Allah." Hold up, hold up. "Just last week you were crying to me for it. I'll see how long this lasts nigga. I'll see how long this lasts." Okay, she going to say things like this to pull you out. To make you get off your intelligent position, to start arguing with her, don't do it. Don't do it. Listen to all the stuff she brought up. That ain't what you all about. That ain't what you're interested in.

	The point of the present is that I'm not going to do such and such, I'm not going to stand for such and such, is that right? Whatever she say on the subject of the past. "I felt real," don't answer it, don't respond to it. No matter how much it bother you. Because she's going to be searching for your weak spot. Don't respond to it. Remember this, you're trying to obey Allah and you don't want to respond to things off the subject all right. Do that, what you do is cut those arguments in the house. You'll cut down this violent tendencies, violent confrontations in your house and eventually you'll begin to see a natural kind of mind come into the house. The normal condition of mind will start coming into the house. It's going to take time, but if there's rage all the time. You always out of order, your natures always out of order, your mind always upset.

	Get the place in order. Don't go in the house tonight and start looking at everything that's out of order and try to correct everything tonight. In fact whatever you see tonight that you saw last night don't say nothing about it alright. But, if you see something new pop up, if she carries it further then stand up. She's going to expect you to say something right. You understand what I mean? It ain't going to stay the same. It continues to grow. Don't bother about what's wrong now. Wait until she comes up with another wrong, a new wrong. Say "Look that's not right, and as a Muslim I can't accept it." She going to start right up, "You don't have to accept it so and so and so and so." "Well I want so and so and so Why?" If she asks why, just tell her, say "It's because I know it's not right for me as a Muslim." If she say, "Well I don't believe I never heard nothing like that, so you go and ask CC now, and if he say I'm wrong then I'll come back to you and talk again, but until then that's it." All right, okay.

	She's going to test you, but don't get involved, don't answer, don't answer. That's it and that's all say "If you want to talk about something else baby I'm ready to talk, but if you want to talk about what you did, what I did, what the problems we have I'm through with it. I ain't interested in those problems, I'm just interested in this one tonight." Alright. "You always have been a chicken so and so and so and so. You can't even argue with me, you can't even defend the position you just took." Say, "Baby peace be unto you." Say, "Asamlamalakun sweet heart." Okay, then go onto bed and try to go to sleep. If she don't let you go to sleep, get your hat and coat and go outside. Come back tomorrow. If she still want a fuss, go back again. Come back and wait for that woman can live without fussing and shouting in your face.

	I'm telling y'all how to do these things. Do it this way you'll get yourself together. Don't' look around saying, and I'm going to conclude it with this, that when your wives are disobeying it's Islamic injustice. It says that dharabtahu dharakahunda khalida, which is translated into English, Strike them or beat them a little lightly. All right, let me tell you something the holy Qur'an also says, that if you have problems in your relationship with your wife deny them the right to your bed until they show signs that they are coming around, alright, so listen to this, if the holy Qur'an meant for me to take my belt or my hand or my fist and physically whip my wife don't you know the holy Qur'an wouldn't tell me to deny that woman my bed?

	See, well both of them can be used. You have to know which one to apply. Different kind of situations, different things. No, dharabtahu tapping them lightly or a little bit was permitted in those days. But the guiding of the holy Qur'an let us know that Allah didn't want us to stay on this primitive kind of relationship with our wives. The holy Qur'an wants us to learn how to handle these situations in a more dignified way. The best way is just to separate physically from her, because that's the problem. If you all can't agree on something physical is right. That's because that woman has started to get her relationship with you confused. She think the whole relationship ain't noting but sex. You see, all right, so if you separate from her in time you will show her that this relationship ain't just sex.

	You understand, "I can do without this woman I want you for more than that." All right, so if we dharabtahu has a broad application. Dharabtahu can also mean in a figurative sense, you can whip somebody with your tongue. They call it giving them a tongue lash. By telling them the facts the truth that drives home to their conscience. You can give them a worse whipping with your tongue than you can with a stick on your hand, right. Okay, so dharabtahu doesn't just mean with your hands or with a stick rather, there are more advanced ways to whip a woman and the best way to whip a woman is to tell her the truth. Tell her the truth, you know if you've been no good. You know you haven't live up to par. You know if you failed her as a husband and failed the children as a father.

	If you have tell her the truth. Say, "I've done this baby I know it, I know I've failed. But look I don't want to keep failing, I want to be a man, and I'm going to be a man." Okay? All right, when you tell her this she's going to hear you. She's going to respect the truth and the truth is going to go home to the heart of her conscience. She's going to begin responding as she should. If you've done good, don't tell her, "Look I bought you a mink coat...
