05/09/1976
IWDM Study Library 
Scriptural Language PT 2

By Imam W. Deen Mohammed
This is the national broadcast of Mr. Mohammed Speaks. The program that's dedicated to truth and justice for all people of the earth. And now we present to you with great honor, the Chief Minister of the Nation of Islam, the Honorable W.D. Muhammad.
Audhu Bilahi Mina Shaitan Ar Raheem. Bismillah Ar Rahma Nir Raheem]. Alhamduillahi Raabil Al Amin, Ar Rahma Nir Raheem Maliki Yaum Ideen. Iyaka Na'budu Wa Iyaka Nastain. Ihdina Siratal Mustaqeem. Sirata Ladheena An Amta Alahim Ghareel Magdoobi Alahim Wa Lad Daaaleeen. Ameen
I seek refuge with Allah from the rejected enemy. With the Name of G-d, Most Gracious, Most Merciful. Praise be to G-d the Cherisher and Sustainer of the world. Most Gracious, Most Merciful. Master of the Day of judgment. Thee do we worship and Thine aid we seek. Show us the straight way, the way of those on Whom thou has bestowed Thy Grace. Those whose portion is not wrath and who go not astray. Ameen.
We greet our honorable radio audience today with the greetings of all the Prophets from Abraham to Muhammad. The greetings of Peace and the Qur'an and Arabic language. As-salamu alaykum
People have been trying to discover that truth that will stand up against all of the truth or against all of the knowledge. Man has a natural suspicion in him that makes him revere or fear and worship a being over himself. And we call it G-d. From the moment we are born, we come under fear brought out of the womb of our mothers into this world. We come under fears.
We don't know whether the world is going to destroy us or take care of us. We cling to our mother because our mother take us in and care for us and feed us and protect us. So, we cling to the mother. And gradually we learn to trust other members of the society. Is that right? But we come into this world with a fear and return to a Supreme or to a Superior force for protection. We call it G-d. "Oh, G-d, help me." "Oh G-d, I'm afraid."
And this fear gradually develops into what we call religion, or reverence for G-d and Holy things. If we are lucky, this fear won't just remain a fear like animal fear, but it will develop. Knowledge will develop that fear. And one day you will come to revere G-d, not as a one trembling afraid of what the world is going to do or that death is about to take me. No, we come because we have a desire to, because we love and respect the idea of G-d and we want G-d near us.
We want G-d ruling in our being. So, we turn to Almighty G-d. So, this fear now is still part fear, but it's more reverence. It's more love and respect than it is the common animal fear. Is that right?
Audience:
Yes.
IWDM:
The Holy Qur'an says, "For the true believers there is no fear, neither fear nor grief." And that's true The more you incline to Almighty G-d. And the more you give yourself to Almighty G-d, the less fear you have in your nature. And pretty soon fear is removed completely from your nature. Where do we find in the example that men set the equal of the example that the Prophets of Almighty set? They come up in the world with no one but themselves and tell the whole world you're going wrong and gradually get some support. Get some members.
You don't find that kind of courage accepting men that have faith in divine being. Most of the men who take a position like that, they have already studied the situation and they've come to the conclusion that they have enough support to protect them. But the righteous man will start out with no support at all and tell the world to turn around. You're going in the wrong direction.
And many of them lost their lives for doing so. But it didn't stop them. They continued to come one behind the other. The world gradually recognized that there was a power in human beings that had to either be accepted or taken over. So, man was looking for something. Something to direct his steps, something to guarantee him a healthy and safe order our society, and nothing he came up with was a substitute for All Mighty G-d.
So, from the earliest days to now, G-d has dominated the lives of human beings. You can go to the Communist world, you can go to China. You'll find that there G-d is dominating the lives of those people. Physically or maybe even in middle orientation may be of the order of the world that they're in, but their souls lean toward Almighty G-d. And when they face death, they don't call on Brezhnev or Mao Tse Tung, they call on G-d, because this is the human being. This is the human being.
All right now, let's keep moving with this and see if we can bring you to peaceful state if we can. Islam is the religion of peace, and we want peace for everybody. And the world needs peace now more than it ever has needed. Quickly now, I want to explain something about these rituals that we have, and then go into some imagery in the religion, in hopes that we'll better understand the world that we live in and how it has come to be the world it is.
When the Christians sprinkle three times, they are speaking from a knowledge that is common in all religion. And that is this, that the human being is a combination of principles working in him to bring him to maturity. These combinations of principles is the material or the sense principle. From the material world. We come into senses the five senses, feeling, tasting, smelling, seeing, hearing these five senses are born out of the material world.
If a human being is to come to life, he must first come to life in his senses. When a baby is born, he is alive in his senses. He has a desire for food and already smell is alive in him. He can smell the mother's breast, he can distinguish the mother's scent from somebody else's scent. Sight, gradually come, slow coming. But pretty soon after a few days the baby's able to see the image, physical image.
So, we have first developing in us the first life to developing us, the five senses. And once we come alive as a sense body in the five senses, then these senses are going to convey to us, are going to transmit to us, knowledge. By touching we are going to learn something. By tasting, we are going to learn something.
Likewise with the smell and with the visual eyes, these senses are going to increase us in knowledge. Is that right? That's
Audience:
Right.
IWDM:
And when we become a knowledge form, then we almost become unconscious of our senses. Whereas yesterday we were very conscious of our senses. The little child is very conscious of his five senses. Is that right?
Audience:
Yes.
IWDM:
He's feeling things, he's tasting things, he's smelling things, you see. He's listening with attention. But after man, woman gets so much knowledge they listen but their mind is across the street or in the tavern or at home sleep. The body is here. But most of the language is escaping the mind. Because this mind is not too much interested now in these things you see. but The baby, his ear was attentive.
Audience:
Yes sir.
IWDM:
And the book says, "Blessed is those who have an ear." I don't care how old you get, you need to keep that one sense. Keep your ear open. Close your mouth if anything man, but keep your ear open. So, this life begins in the five senses. So, the Priest, he will sprinkle once, "Oh G-d, please let this poor soul come alive in his five senses." If he'll come alive for this first time, he'll have a chance to come alive for the second time. You see? But if you don't come alive in your five senses, you'll never come alive as a knowledgeable being.
We got holy people who ignore all the reality in the world and go and fix their whole mind, conscious and whole being on an idea that they think is foreign to the natural happenings in the world. And by meditation and concentration they escape the real world. How many of these people are helping society? They can't help society because they don't know society.
To help society, you have to live with society. Jesus said he took his disciples out of the world. Not that they shouldn't live in the world, they have to go back into the world. Is that right? Taking them out of the world means taking them out of the mind of the wicked. But he didn't intend that they live as mystics. He wanted them to go back and walk in the marketplaces with the people, sit with the people, eat with the people so that you can reach the people and bring them to a better life.
This is Islam. Islam say, "Don't let your righteousness give you a superior heart." A sense of some kind of superiority over people in the sense of holiness. That you think yourself untouchable. That G-d has made human beings to be a society of angels. He made you to be a society of men. This is the teaching of Islam. If He had wanted human beings to be angels, He would've made them angels.
What do we mean by this? People have the idea that an angel is one who does not commit sin. And a human being that desires sex is sinful. The Holy Qur'an say that G-d hasn't made you to be an angel. If He wanted you to be sexless, He would've made you sexless. If He wanted you to be some being existing without food, without meat, without drink, He would've made you a being that has no desire, no need for food and drink. The Holy Qur'an say that the Prophet ate your food. He drinks your drink and he lived among you. And he lived a human life.
And that's the beauty, brother and sister. That's the beauty of human excellence. A man who can be a human being and yet stand on the top and not be touched by those things in the gutter. He is really the victorious one. This is the teaching of Jesus, Muhammad and every other man from Almighty G-d. No Messenger of G-d came into the world to make the human society a society of angels.
All right, let's move on now. The Bible says that G-d made the man and then caused the man to fall under a deep sleep. And while the man was under a deep sleep, he took a rib of the man and made the man a help meet, a woman, and then brought the woman to the man. So, the man didn't see the creation of the woman did he? According to the Bible, he was under a deep sleep.
He didn't see the creation of the woman. When the man knew anything, the woman was there and the woman was his helper. Is that right? What does this mean in common language? It means that society is here when you get here. You don't know how society was made. You have to be taught how society was formed. Is that right? Woman here means the world, or society. When we come here, all of us have to be taught how society was formed.
And when we learned how society was formed, we learned this truth- That society came out of man, is that right? But it was out of man's head, out of man's heart that society was formed. Now why does the book says a rib of the man and not a skull bone that would make us think of the head. Because society, when it is naturally formed, it's not formed by knowledge, it's formed by the forces of sentiment. We order our world because we don't want hurt and losses to come to us.
We want to protect our children. So, this is a desire that is moving from the heart that caused man to want to order society. Is that right? The man that has no compassion, has no concern for the people, he's not interested in a orderly society. He wants society to be without order so that he can come in anytime he want and root and take away what he want and go on back to his place. But organization will deprive him of that liberty to come in and seize a little lamb and take it back home and eat it. Is that right?
Audience:
Yes.
IWDM:
Men order society because they want to protect the weak. They want to protect what they have. So this desire is more associated with the heart than it is with intelligence. But as the society begin to develop, then we find something developing along with that society. First, the society is a small society like your home society, a man and his wife and some children. Is that right? A little food in the cupboard and a few chairs.
You don't need a police force to protect that. But as the society grows, economic development comes into the picture. Pretty soon, the wealth is so much that you attract mighty beasts to come in and take what you got. Is that right? Now you need a police force, you need an army. Is that right? All right. So, when the society begin to grow bright in the glow of wealth, then the mind intelligence begins to get weak.
And it begins to scheme. That wealth is there. "How can I get it?" You see? So, we have in the story of Genesis, the society being formed as an elementary or primitive society. Then it begins to grow. There's an interest in knowledge. The knowledge brings about better ways of increasing the wealth of the society. The society increased in wealth. And pretty soon there are many societies, many nations.
And the wicked mind began to want to take over. Is that right? So, the serpent, he wanted to take over. He wanted to take over the society and also he wanted to take over the spirit the G-dly nature in the person. So, he wanted to get Adam under his control. Adam, which Adam represents the G-dly spirit in the people. He wanted that under his control. And he also wanted the society under his control.
So, he got the man that is the G-dly spirit in the society to come under his control by giving power through the society. Society is weak. Like the flesh. Society goes after the things that appeal to the appetite of the flesh. When you go out there and look in the society, in any society, you'll see great stores selling the things that your body needs. Is that right?
So, when we go out into the society, we find people offering our body something. How many times we go into society and find people offering our heart something, or offering our mind something? Now the world offers your body something. So, this body is called Eve in the Bible, the senses, the five senses. Because the society is of that nature. They want to sell your flesh something, you see.
So, the wicked mind, that wicked intelligence scheming for control of the world, wanted to get the society under its power. And in getting the society under its power, it knew in time it would get the G-dly spirit under its power. Because without help, the G-dly force in us will get weak. There's an old saying that, "Coals keep their heat when they're with each other. But if you take one coal out from the rest of the pieces of coal, this hot piece of coal will pretty soon cool," right? But when they all together, they help each other keep their heat.
So, if you put a man in a world that offer his divine nature nothing and he can't find company like himself, he's going to get weak and weak. And this is all the Genesis is telling us is that the wicked mind took over the society and fed the freshly appetites of the society and neglected or ignored the spiritual appetites of the society. And in doing this, they brought the spiritual man of a G-dly man under their control.
Jesus could meet the devil head on. He could contend with sin. Why? Because he was pure? No, that's not the only reason. It was because he was wise. He knew Satan. And that's what he told him. He said, "I know you." He didn't say, "I'm holier than thou. That's why I can handle you." He said, "I know you, and that's why I can handle you." Is that right?
All right. So, we have to have both of these forces in us brothers and sisters. We have to have sincerity, honesty, righteousness, truth, and also knowledge. No matter how much goodness you have in you, no matter how much you inclined to be right, if you don't have some sense, you'll pray waiting for the devil. You have to have some sense.
Speaker 1:
You've been listening to the Chief Minister of the Nation of Islam, the Honorable W. Deen Mohammed, speaking to you from Chicago, Illinois.
Speaker 1:
Bilalian News. Bilalian News. Bilalian News.
Speaker 2:
BilaI is an outstanding man in the history of his law. Bilal became the first muezzin, the first minister of Prophet Muhammad, May Peace be upon him. And this man was a black, so called African. And he was so sincere, his soul was so pure. that Prophet Muhammad and the other leaders under him addressed this man, Master Bilal.
Speaker 1:
Bilalian News, the newspaper that's dedicated to truth and justice for all people of the earth. Bilalian News, your newspaper that's factual, timely, and essential. Bilalian News covers the four corners of the earth with topics that are vital to the world and to the community. Get Bilalian News at your news stands or through your Bilalian News representative. Good news, all news, Bilalian News.
Speaker 1:
Tune in next week and every week at the same time over this special network of stations for the national broadcast of Mr. Muhammad Speaks. Thank you for listening.



