1975-June-6

Muhammad Speaks

A Message To Young Men And Women

By Wallace D. Muhammad Supreme Minister


As -Salaam -Alaikum
My Dear Young Brothers and Sisters,
Last week we began to talk about the importance of "self -control." You must have self-control if you want to grow up to be a real man or a real woman. When we say "man" or "woman," remember that we mean "mind."

You are a little man-child or woman -child and you have a mind of your own right now. Everybody has their own mind. Because you have your own mind, nobody can make you think if you don't want to think— not even your father, your mother or your teacher.
Why? They cannot make you think if you do not want to think because they cannot get inside your head and know what you are thinking.

The only one that can do this is Allah, but He is not going to make you think what He wants you to think if you don't want to do it.
Allah will help you to learn what is best for yourself, then if you don't want to do it He will not make you do it.
Allah is God, the Supreme Being, the Creator. He created the earth, the sun, the moon, the stars, and everything in the universe. He has created them but He is creating us because we are not yet finished.

Let us think about something very important now: if you like something, just by liking it, that something is going to do something to you.
If you like dancing, then just by liking dancing you are going to start dancing. The only way you can keep yourself from dancing is to tell yourself: "Self, you like dancing but I don't want you to be a dancer. I want you to be a mathematician when you grow up."

Then when you want to dance, maybe you will just let yourself dance a little bit and then go study your mathematics so you can be what you want to be.
In the Holy Quran, Allah tells us that we are put on the earth to be rulers. To be a ruler means to be a boss.
Even though you may be a young man or a young woman now of 4, 6, 10, or 14 years of age, you are already a boss. You are the boss over yourself. Since you are already the boss over yourself, you have to learn "self- control" so you get yourself to do what the "boss" wants you to do.

We will continue this subject next week.

Thank you for reading this Article. I pray that you understand it and benefit from it.
As -Salaam -Alaikum
