05/27/1977
IWDM Study Library
Mother and Daughter

By Imam W. Deen Mohammed
Speaker 1:
In the Name of Allah, the Beneficent, the Merciful. Peace and blessings upon His servant and His Messenger. Muhammad forever, Ameen. There is no G-d but Allah and Muhammad most surely is His last Messenger. My sisters we greet you this evening with the beautiful greetings of peace in the Arabic language. Asalaam Alaikum.
Speaker 2:
Well first of all, this evening we would like to give praise and thanks to Almighty G-d Allah, the Creator of the heavens and the earth for such a beautiful and a grand evening. But more so we'd like to thank Allah for the beautiful and glorious day in which we live. Sisters, I don't know if you know, but we've been told that this day and time there has never been another like it. And what you're going to hear tonight from Imam WD Mohammed is something that can save your very life. Now, some of you may not know that our lives need saving, but sisters, we be in very bad shape. And if we will only listen to and accept what you'll hear tonight, believe me, your very life will change.

Your very life will change. You can accept what you will hear and live or you can reject it and most surely you will die. At this time, we must make a conscious effort on all of our parts to keep our mind open to the truth that we have been blessed to hear through WD Mohammed. We must pray for an understanding from Almighty G-d Allah, a conscious understanding to be able to accept this truth and live this truth and constantly pray and be ever mindful of trying to grow or growing in this truth that is being taught and given to us in this day and time. We must really make a strong effort in the entire community, brothers and sisters, sisters and brothers, to do and live the way we know that we should. To our visitors, we just like to say and ask that you keep your mind open, your ears open. Let us all come and listen, learn and grow. Asalaam Alaikum.
Speaker 2:
At this we would like to bring before you, the leader of the World Community of Islam in the West, the Honor,able Imam, Wallace D Mohammed.
Imam WD Mohammed:
Bismillah ir Rahma Nir Raheem. With the Name of Allah Most Gracious, Most Merciful. Peace and Blessings be upon His slave, servant and Messenger Muhammad, the last of the Messengers and Prophets. Dear beloved sisters, Asalaam Alaikum. Indeed it is an honor for me to be out here tonight with a great big gathering like this of beautiful sisters. And really I feel that a lot of brothers are deprived of really the treat that I'm getting right now.

Too bad they can't all share it with me. While we want to talk about women, the woman, in Islam, but Islam as you know is truth, the natural religion of the human family of the planet earth. And that truth didn't just come with the Qur'an, which was revealed 1400 years ago, but the Qur'an brought that truth to us in its perfect and completed form. But that truth was growing and coming to us for many, many, many thousands and thousands of hundreds, thousands of years.

Want to get this up some. We're going to adjust the mic here a little bit I think and get it away from me some. Now let's see. It might be better now. I believe it's a little better now. Okay. If we understood the image of mother, or the image of woman, as that image has come to the minds of the modern world down through the ages, we would have a knowledge that would help us in our daily life in our relationship with each other, in our relationships with each other, with our world that we live in and more importantly with our relationship in our home life. So I would like to begin by first mentioning a book that was written by I believe a Dr. Davis and Dorothy Klein I believe. The book is called The Infantilisation of Man. The Infantilisation of Man, or Man Child. In this book, these two doctors did a study of the influences that affect man's life from the environment, from the modern environment to turn him back into an infant, make him an infant in his mind and in his habits or in his actions. They have a rostrum here I guess they think a preacher must have a pulpit. This book is a big book. I think it was nearly 400 pages, but I'll quickly just give you a quick summary of this book. These writers were saying that man builds a world from his own mind and his world in time puts him back in the crib.

He works hard to establish himself as the master of his environment, but in time his own works put him back in the baby crib. This is what these two writers were saying. And a quick summary of what they were saying is that man, his own works work to make him an infant, affect his life in a way to make him an infant. And they pointed to many examples in ancient history and to some in modern history. Among the examples they pointed to in ancient history was Greece, how Greece rose to great heights, the armies, the archeology and all the great medicines and science of ancient Greece. They rose and they said something began to happen in the Grecian civilization. The men began to want to be women and the males began to get softer and softer, until they were just like timid females. So he was pointing to these developments to support his, ahhh her and his, pardon me, it was a woman and man author of this book, to support their theory that man builds civilization in such way that the civilization he builds works to make him an infant in the long run, in the final end.

He pointed to, the authors, pointed to Rome also, how Rome rose and became great and at the peak of their rise, rise of their civilization, they too became soft and effeminate like women, like delicate women. They discovered evidence in their studies men who had started to dress in women clothes, female kinds of clothes, clothing. And not necessarily women clothing but clothing that looks like female clothing. And decorating their toilets so that the toilet looks feminine or either like it's a childs room. And they, believe me, they pointed out a number of well-known wealthy people, wealthy Americans who had began to do this and then also they pointed to the music and they described the music as womb music, womb music. And they explained it in this way. They said that this beat boom, boom, boom, boom, that's the desire in the man for his place he once had in the womb of his mother.

When he was in the womb of his mother, that's what he heard. He heard her heart, boom, boom, boom, boom. Says so the music, boom, boom, boom, boom. He wants to get back in the womb. So these authors are saying that man tries to save himself, but in trying to save himself, he brings himself back to infant mind, to infant mind. And he begin to hate the world that he made. And he doesn't realize that he hate his world so, but the evidence of his hatred for his world is in the very design that begin to dominate his civilization. The signs of love for the infant life again, the signs of love for the feminine image. All these things they described as signs of the man hating the very world that he had created and wanting to get back, wanting to leave it, wanting to leave it. And to leave it, the only place he knows to go is back to his mother. Back to his mother. He wants the crib again. He wants soft linen and flowery things, pinky blue room and a lot of baby powder smelling all around.

So, the man regresses after a time. He regresses. He stretches all of his muscles and do as much as he possibly can. Then after he's done all that he can, he looks at it and see that this thing is against me. What I've created is against me. And modern civilization tells us that now, the designs, the city designs, the city planning was all wrong. It ended up hurting life, retarding life instead of freeing life, the pollution and you know all the numbers of things that they point to as big mistakes made by modern men. He didn't plan well. And all of these things make us give up, throw up our hands so to speak and say what's next? What can we do from here? Nothing. So we'll go back to the womb. You find educated men, strong leaders of society, satisfied just to see the world go down the drain. All they want to do is play. Just play. Have a good time and play. So I quote you that sisters to let you know that the men have never been and never will be the key for saving society.

Women have always been and always will be the key to save society. The men can only voice their complaints, but who gets it started? It is always the woman. Life starts with the mother, not with the father. G-d doesn't give life to the father. G-d gives life to the mother. And the mother has that life for nine months and then she delivers it as a baby. And then she still has to care for it until that life is able to manage for itself. So this is a sign that G-d has entrusted the woman with it's life, with the life of the world.

Now I'd like to draw from the terms from that book of these two authors who are both doctors. Dr. Davis I believe it is and Dorothy Klein. And turn now to the evolution of the image of woman in religion. And quickly go over this. We have in our language the word mother. How many of us know where the word mother comes from? Very few. Go and ask doctors of psychology, educators and you still, I believe you will find very few know where the word mother come from. The word mother comes from an ancient belief in a G-d that was called Mut, or Mutt. And they, some pronounce it Mutar and we have the pronunciation Muter. And what is Muter? What was Muter? Muter was the earth. Now Muter is a woman, you see? And when we look in Greek mythology and Agin mythology, we find that there was different G-d's that came to be Muter that were really the earth, as people saw the earth.

Why did these ancient people identify a woman, a mother as earth? Because the earth sustains life. The earth birth life and sustains life. The seed is put in the earth, the earth gives it food, gives it nourishment, it pops up out the earth and then the earth lets it feed on it. Lets the plant, the growing thing, feed on it until that growing thing is strong enough to produce fruit or to reproduce itself. Then when it's strong enough to reproduce itself, it drops the seed again back in Mut or Mutt or Mother earth you see. So in this should be a sign for adult thinking people to see that G-d is reaching us in many ways to tell us something. And that's why the ancient people became so learned in religion or in revelation. It was because G-d directed them to the right sources for their research. The best source source for our research is the natural creation. If we study the natural creation, we'll see the signs of Almighty G-d because His signs are in His works. Like the signs of a workman is in his work, the signs of G-d is in His work. The earth remained a concept or figure or an image for the woman for a long time. And then man decided that the earth is no more a good sign for the woman or a good image for the woman. Then he made the air a good image for the woman. Said woman is Haba or Eve. Eve is Haba, Hawa or Haba and in Arabic, Hawa and in English Eve. And what is Eve? Eve is air, the air about the earth.

Why did the ancient people than change from calling the woman earth, Mother earth and started calling the woman air? Because as civilization progress, man began to realize that the strongest influences in his life, are the influences that come from the woman. That he's influenced more by the woman than by anything else. So air is a poetic word really meaning the influence, the attraction, the appeal of the woman. The average man, when he feels desire for a woman, he thinks he's going after the woman, but really the woman is driving him after her, you see? Yes, he thinks he's going after the woman but the woman is driving him after her. And these ancient people, they knew this, they got it right. We have got it wrong, but they had it right. The woman is a driving force. She drives the man, she drives him after her, he has to come to her to reproduce his life. And his whole worth is really brought into existence because of the driving forces of the woman. Why does a man go out and plow, build a house? Because there's a wind from a woman driving him to do those things. If it wasn't for Huwa or Hawa, he wouldn't do anything. That man would just lay down somewhere like an ape in the jungle and sleep his life away. In fact, he would be less than an ape. The ape would be busier than he would be.

But because there is a woman with her driving influences, reaching the man and stirring his life, don't you know the little child, the first thing he feels in his life after mama is a little girl? He might play with the boys, but he doesn't feel any wind blowing him and shifting him about until a little girl comes into his life. Then he begins to get a whole new kind of relationship with life in this world. And it keeps driving him and driving him until he comes into what we call puberty or adolescence. And he's driven then by pure sex, pure sex. Sometimes it's love, they think it's love. But the average teenager is not driven by love. It's dream love. But the force is pure sex and that's why most marriages that take place in their early age, those marriages have to mature to become real marriages. Or they're broken up and they become no marriage at all. It's because the strongest influence there was physical and not spiritual. In time, a spiritual kind of thing will mature. And if they're lucky to stay together until that matures, then they would have something strong to live with. But if they don't, they're subject to be destroyed by the next contending wind. Right? The wind come from the other flower and blow him straight out that window.

Yes. So this is life and the ancient people saw that and G-d guided them and increased their knowledge and their knowledge came to us and made it possible for us to understand the nature of woman in man's life and the nature of man in the life of the society. And I keep telling the brothers we can't do this job. The sisters have to do this job. All we can do is let the sisters know we have complaints. That's what we did when we were babies. We told Mama- Mama my head hurts. Mama, my foot hurts. Mama, I hurt my toe. Mama, I'm hungry.

And mama helped us to get an answer for our complaints. And that's exactly what we have to have today. We are a modern world, we have great leaders, but believe me sisters, these leaders are your sons. Whether you have son or not of your own, the leaders that you have over you are your sons. And never look at your leaders except as your sons. Look at me as your son. I'm your son. And if you don't help your son as a mother, your son is going to be in bad shape forever. You have to help your sons. The Honorable Elijah Muhammad used to say, "Where there is no decent women, there can be no decent men." Sisters, you have to live for us. You can't live behind us. You have to live ahead of us. Living for us means living ahead of us. You have to lead us down the path of life. A man is never strong enough to uphold the dignity of womanhood or motherhood. Only a woman can uphold the dignity of womanhood and motherhood. The man wasn't made to uphold it. He was made to seize it, to capture it and to use it and then go away. But you were made to discipline that man. And you can discipline him by just reminding him, "Look nigga, I'm your mother. I don't care if I look like your wife or not, I'm your mother."

And tell him to clean himself up, say "Straighten up your mind man. Get yourself straight. Don't play on me like I'm some play toy. This is your mother, you're disrespecting your mother boy." You have to put us straight sisters. I'm telling you.

Say "Look, I know down the road you're going to run into trouble." You know it. Most of you know it, but you don't tell us. Afraid we might argue with you or slap you down. But you know it. You see us heading down the road of trouble. You're going to have to take your own leadership that you have earned, that you've been given by G-d. And that leadership is the leadership of mother. They asked me in a radio interview, they asked me the question. Say, "Well what is the role of the woman in Islam, in the World Community of Al Islam? I said, the role of a woman in Al Islam is the role of a mother. So the interviewer asked me, he said, "Well doesn't that limit the woman?" I said, no indeed. I said, we need a mother when we are born. We need a mother when we leave the house and go out on the streets, and we need a mother when we get in the White House and rule the nation. That mother role should grow out of the home into the streets and it should cover the whole world. The whole society must have mother guidance, mother guidance. The women have to tell the men, "Look, you men are destroying our world.You men are neglecting your duty." Who told us the first time? Wasn't it mama?

She told me the first time, "Boy you going to be lazy and no count and you'll never be able to manage if you don't break these habits." My mother told me those things. Well, the women have to keep preaching. You have to stay on the case sister and let the leaders know when they're messing up life or when they're failing or when they're getting drunk in their minds, losing sight on the real aims that we should have as leaders. Let us know. Pull our coat. I told this interviewer, I said, you know the biggest problem that we have, it's the absence of motherhood in our lives. It's the absence of authority from mother in our lives. I said, you know what the President is in need of now more than anything else. He said, "What?" I said, it's a mother in his life. He needs a strong mother in his life. Somebody to tell him, "Look, take a rest now. Go to sleep. Get some sleep so you can get up tomorrow morning on time and do what you have to do. Leave that little girl alone that you playing with. Stay with your wife. You want to disgrace the whole nation."

Somebody has to do these things. And I know that I got this kind of protection and instruction from my mother. And I know that most children have received this kind of protection and instruction from their mothers. I know it's the nature of women, the nature of females to give that kind of protection and that kind of instruction. I remember coming up in my early boyhood life, I remember my girlfriends. And I remember among my girlfriends, those who were strong. And when I say strong I mean strong as females. They were mothers to me and I wasn't anything to them but a boyfriend. But I recall the girls and the kind of things they said to me. I could hear in it mother advice. So this is natural for the females.

Sometimes you'll see a little young girl, maybe two, three or four years old. She'll say something to her brother, or say something to her father. And what she says comes from a mothers mind, comes from a mothers mind. And she's just a little girl, a little girl. But what she says reaches the man as the voice of mother. You see? So this is a revelation. I don't mean in any spooky kind of sense. This is a revelation that G-d has blessed me with. I have grown to see that really the base of society is womanhood, motherhood. And if that base is weakened, no hope for man, no hope for man. Sisters, let us learn all we can about our religion, Al Islam. You can't wait for the men to teach you how to be a Muslim sister. These Imams, they need you to teach them something. I'm telling you the truth.

They can do a good job of exciting somebody on Sunday and getting them to jump up and say I want to join the community. But that's about it. He's fizzled out. That's about it. If you want this community to keep going, you're going to have to stand up and do your part. Each one of you, you're going to have to pull the coat of each other, pull the coat of the brother, remind the little children when they going astray. I can preach for 30 minutes or for three hours or four hours. But if you sisters don't stay on the job, all my preaching is nothing but air, just wind that goes away. It's nothing. And there's nothing the brothers can do to save it. You have to save it.

Now let us look at another term for woman. It's a little bit later. We're bring it on up closer to our time. And this term is a term I'm sure that you've heard or read. Help meet. The Bible says that the woman was made to be a help meet for man. Now that word for a long time in my mind was H-E-L-P H-E, pardon me, H-E-L-P M-E-A-T, like meat you eat. So help meat. Well meat that helped me I guess, Help Meat. But I happen to notice that word in the Bible. I said, this is not M-E-A-T, this is M-E-E-T, help meet. And meet means to join together, to meet each other, to come together. So help meet. I said, what does this mean? Always trusting G-d. Now I know lot of you not as spooky as I am, but I'm real spooky when it comes to believing in G-d. And I trust Allah all the way.

So, I said to myself, I'm asking G-d, pleading to Him for guidance all the time. I said, what is this help meet? So I said, meet, meet. Does it mean the meet help him meet, come together with the woman? I said yes, it came to me. Yes, that's right. Because if It wasn't for that woman's attraction, physical attraction on the man he would never go to that woman. He would never do that with a woman. And if he never did that with the woman, he would never reproduce himself or herself. You see? So I said this is wonderful. I said yes. And I began to understand. I say G-d has put this attraction on earth between us, man and woman, and have blessed us by giving us pleasure in this kind of coming together. Makes it pleasant for us. Make it something that men can't do without. They'll lose the castle, lose the government for it, some of them you know. I mean history tells us this. There have been leaders who have lost the government just for that woman.

Yes. So I said to myself, isn't this beautiful? Beautiful, that G-d has put this attraction in the woman and in the man so that He brings the two together, the man comes together with the woman. He could have driven us together by some painful force. Couldn't He? He could have driven us by something that hurts. He could have made it unpleasant but yet forced us to do it because we know we couldn't survive without it, you see. But He made it pleasant, most enjoyable, pleasant and most enjoyable. And we come together and we reproduce each other. But that's just the physical plane.

Now what does that speak on a higher plane of life? Speaks something much greater. Just as G-d has put that physical appeal there to make us come together to reproduce ourselves, He has also made the womans a kind of influence on man, driving him to his goal. And that's the most important message. Help meet, to help him meet his goal in life. G-d has set a goal for man. G-d wants man to reach a goal. That goal is not just to live and eat and drink and die and sleep and die, have children and die. That goal is to improve upon life, to build society better and better. To never give up trying to make it better. The man must never give up trying to improve upon his work. Who is the driving force for that man? The woman. The woman. Find me a man that has no woman as a driving force in his life, and line up those men on one side of the world. And then I want to line up the men that have women as a driving force in their life. And you'll see that the men who have no women as a driving force in their life will be mostly bums. I'm telling you, will be mostly bums. Sissies, bums, jailbirds. That's right.

And the men who have women as a driving in their life, you'll find them professional men, leaders of society, doctors, lawyers, builders, Generals in the army. I don't know if you know this or not, but most sophisticated nations, they insist that their leaders have a woman. And if he doesn't have a woman, if he doesn't have a wife, they'd rather see him committing adultery than not have a woman at all. Why? Because civilization has taught man that he has to have a woman to quiet him. We coming up to another later term now using the Qur'an. Holy Qur'an says that G-d has made the woman to comfort and quiet the man. Has given the woman to us so that she may quiet us. What does it mean, quiet? A leg, a leg put at rest. The baby, who puts them at rest? I've seen men try to put babies at rest. Most men can't do it. And then I've seen a woman that didn't belong to the family come in and take the baby that the father couldn't put to rest and take that baby in her lap. And pretty soon that baby gone to sleep. So there's something about the woman. The man needs the woman to rest his life, to rest his life. He becomes excited, too excited sometimes. The child forces take him over sometimes and he starts tearing up the place. Tear up the whole world if you don't check him, you see? But if he's got a stabilizer in his life, a woman who understands him, who knows how to reach him, who knows what her purpose is, what her role is. She can that man. Psychiatry, psychiatrist-The best psychiatrist is a woman. I'm telling you what I know as a fact. These psychiatrist, you go them, they ask you, "What is the problem?" Yeah ok. He looks in the book and he reads what Freud says, what Jung says, what this one says, what that one says.The woman she look at him and she listens, and she watching him- "Ah honey, come here. If I was you, I'd just give up that thought, And look, you got a good thing going here. Why don't you spend more time on this baby?" And she start working with him and he ought pay her twice the money. The money he spend on psychology, if he just spend it with one good woamn, one good mama, he'll have all his problems solved. But I know the trouble in the world. The trouble is that the leaders of society, in order to keep a rule, a tight grip on society, they have had to destroy relationships. Now let me tell you that again. We want this to really soak in.

In order to keep a firm grip on the society, the leaders have had to destroy relationships. They have had to destroy the relationship of children to parents and husband to wife. They have had to do this to keep a strong grip of control on the whole society. Now they have gone to their limits. The society is destroyed now just about. And they realize that the solution is to revive life in the home. The President knows this, the leaders of society now today, they know this. They know in order to turn this tide around, get this thing back on the right road, that we are going have to revive life in the home. Society has completely destroyed life, completely destroyed home life. The President said, even among the top leaders of the nation, there's no strong family life. Isn't that a shame? It's pitiful. There's no strong family life.

Sisters, the only one that can bring back a strong family life, you. You're going to have to do it. And we don't mean just in the home, we mean in the streets. In this school, Clara Muhammad School. In the Masjid, in Elijah Muhammad Masjid Number two, the sisters are going to have start working. More and more sisters going to have join those who are working to talk up the right thing among us, and to get the right kind of thinking back in our society. The sisters are going to have to do this and you can do it. So the Holy Qur'an says that G-d has made the woman as a comfort, as soothing thing to quiet, to allay to set at rest, the excitement that comes in the life of the man. We need a check on us. We need a sobering, a sobering influence in our lives. And the woman can give that. She can give it or she can abandon it and destroy society.

Now let's bring it up a little closer to language that we use today in Al Islam.The Qur'an says that G-d, Allah that is, have made the woman as a covering, a dress, for the man. See how these terms are moving up. We came from the concept of the earth. The earth was thought of to be like the woman, what her role in life is. What her role is, is the earth She produced the life, she gives birth to the dead seed, to give it life. And then she supports it until it grows big enough to reproduce itself. And then we came on up and now we're on woman as a dress, a clothing.

When man gets his world in trouble and believe me, man gets his world in trouble. See, Allah didn't make woman to hold man back. A woman feels guilty when she's holding the man back. Allah wants the man free. He want him free to do what he has to do. He doesn't want him to be held back because he's aggressive by nature. The man is by nature, outgoing, aggressive. The woman by nature is cautious. Security conscious and cautious. Isn't this a wonderful pair? Isn't it just a beautiful balance? One needs to be aggressive, daring, in order to go out and meet the challenges of the environment. But he'll destroy himself if he doesn't have that stabilizer. The one who is security conscious, who will sit back and be very cautious. Say "Wait a minute man, I don't think you ought to invest all our money in that."

Well, this is needed to make that proper balance. That proper balance. And the Holy Qur'an says that you are Zawjain, pairs of each other. Meaning that I am to be paired with my wife or the woman is to be paired with the man. Now you know a pair, the pair or the mate doesn't have to look exactly like the thing it's paired with or made into. In industry, there are many devices and apparatus that fit into another one to make a whole. Many times the one that fits into the other one or the one that goes into the other, they don't look anything alike. They look very much unalike. You see? Now the woman and the man, we look alike. You have longer hair than us normally. Is that right? Yes. And you stick out a little bit more up here maybe a little bit more down there too.

But I think we look pretty much alike. Physically speaking we look very much alike. Sometimes you have to ask, "Is that a man or a woman?" But in our function in society, our role, our primary function in the society we're different. We may look alike physically, but we're greatly different when it comes to our role, our function, our main function in the society. So the Holy Qur'an describes us as Zawjain, or pairs. One has to be fitted to the other one to make a whole. Says "You are the half to each other." A man is not whole, he's a half. A woman is not whole, she's a half. But when the halves come together, they make a whole. And it uses the word Zawjain which means they pair, they mate each other. They're mates. Mates are like the hand. They fit like this, right? But what you call that thing, you plug in the wall? A plug. And the thing that the plug goes into is a receptor, right? Well those things don't look alike, but they're mates aren't they? And they make a whole when they are fitted together, you see? Or the boat that goes in the screw in the boat. They go and they make the whole but they don't look alike.

So, the Holy Qur'an says of us, to let us know that we're very much dissimilar when it comes to our function in the society. It says "And for surely the male is not the likeness of the female." You see? "For surely, the male is not the likeness of the female." So G-d has told us that we are pairs, we are mates. But again, He wants us to know that you're not like the female. So sister, be careful when you raise the little boys. Remember he's not like the female, And be carefulraising the little girls. Remember the little girls are not like the male. Don't, because he looks pretty, because he has pretty hair, don't call him sugar, honey, peaches. Call him Joe. Whatever name you gave him, call him by his name. You see. Don't give him no sweet nickname. Call him Joe, Billy, Rahman, Ali, Jamal. Whatever his name is, call him that. And don't call him honey, sugar, and popcorn. Marshmallow. Don't call him these names. It's going to make him identify with a feminine picture of himself. He'll begin to see a feminine picture of himself and pretty soon we'll have a lot of perverts, you see? Because he iron a shirt well, don't make him iron all the time. You might catch him ironing one day. "Oh that boy iron better than my daughter. I'm going to have him iron all the time." Pretty soon he see himself as an ironer, and he sees in society that the woman is the ironer. And then you going to catch him in the bed with Billy.

That's right. Most of this perversion, most of this perversion that you find in society, it gets started right in the home because people make mistakes in their homes. And if we can stop these mistakes, we'll stop the production of a lot of homosexuals and what not.

Lastly, I'm going to leave you now. As you know I'm a long talker and a longwinded talker. I'm going to cut out in a few minutes. Lastly, I want to talk about the woman as a tempter. The Holy Qur'an does not use this language at all. The Holy Qur'an never addresses woman or points to woman describing her as a tempter. Only the Bible does this, and the Bible doesn't do it intentionally. It is because the language is so flexible you can twist it any way you want it. That they have come to that wrong idea that the woman is a tempter. The Bible says that the woman listened to the snake and gave the forbidden thing to the man. But the Bible didn't say that the woman was trying to tempt that man. That's the preacher came into that kind of thing, you see? You who have read it, you know that the Bible never says Eve was trying to tempt her husband.

Eve was going along with her husband trying to be a good wife I guess, until the snake came along and he tried to tempt both of them. And the book says that the woman ate and then she offered it to her husband. Didn't say she tempted her husband. There is no evidence that she tried to persuade him to eat it. She didn't say "Take this honey. Isn't it beautiful? Look at it again baby. Don't you think you'll like that?" She didn't do that. Say she took and she also gave also to her husband. So the preacher, seeing how he's affected, not necessarily a preacher but just man. Seeing how he's affected by a woman comes to the conclusion that "Yes, this woman, this woman, yeah that's her. She's the one that tempts us to make us do wrong, get us in trouble. She's the one that started the first ancestor on the wrong path. Tempted our ancestor. Adam. Brought us under sin, you know." Alright, but that's the wrong idea.

The woman in Al Islam, she is recognized for what she is and for what she holds in the society, for what influences she holds in the society, or out to the society. In the Holy Qur'an, Allah has revealed that the woman has appeal. Many kind of appeals. And one of these are the strongest appeals to the man. That is a young man, and many old men, is the physical appeal. But to most rational, sensible men, women lose their physical influence in his life after he's about 40 years old. Women, the men begin to see something else more valuable in the woman. And many men, they see this much earlier. It's only baby minded men. They get 70 years old and every time a woman pass, he can't hardly turn his neck no more.

No kidding. I was walking down the street, look here. I'm walking down the seat behind this old man and every time a woman pass, he's walking like this here. I thought I was going to have to help him get back up. Some men, they just never rise to see a woman any higher than that. But most of them we get above that The Holy Qur'an, it brings our attention to the power of the woman to excite a sex in us, a sex desire in us. And Prophet Muhammad, Peace and Blessings be upon him. He said that every part of the woman has become for the man an excitement for sex. And that's true. See a woman, she look at a man unless she, now you got some strange women. This world done made everybody abnormal, you know. But I remember the time when society was a little bit more normal than it is now. And women wasn't excited when they see a man's foot. That didn't excite no woman, looking at a mans foot. She could look at his leg, it didn't excite her. At his hand, his arm, it didn't excite her. But now, man show his toe it might excite some of these sisters. "Did you see his toe girl. Oooh, he got some bad toes baby." But a few years ago, when society wasn't crazy, women wasn't excited like that.

But men have always been excited by any part of the woman. Any part. If a man look at a woman eyelash too long, he liable to get excited. Just any part of her. Her hand, he can look at her hand and get excited. Foot, naked foot, get excited. Prophet Muhammad, knowing this, G-d guiding us, guiding him to this, asked him to tell the women to cover themselves. Say tell the women when they go in the public, when you're in your home, it's okay. The person that you exciting there, he belongs to you and you belong to him. It's alright. It says "But tell the women, when they go out into the public, for fear they may be molested." Now you know that's a fact. It says for fear they may be molested, tell them to cover themselves completely except the hands and the face. Why the hands shouldn't be covered? Because I guess in those days they didn't have nice, neat gloves and the woman has to use her hand as she uses her hands to put covering on. Wrap her hands up, lock her hands up, how she going to manage it. But I'm sure that if there was a way it would have said cover everything and peep out some slits. Now, Prophet Muhammad in his day, he did not tell women to wear veils.

Before Prophet Muhammad the Jews and the Christians had been in the habit of wearing veils. Right now the world thinks that veils come from Muslims. Veils come from Jews and Christians. And others, other religious people too. They wore veils. It was just a normal thing. It was just a custom that the women wore the veil. And let me tell you what women did with these veils. They used these veils to hide their ugliness and to tempt the man. See they used the veil that's just thin, just enough. Nothing looks as good to a man as a woman in dusk dark. She look good to him in the light when the sun is at noon shining bright, she looks good to him. But let it get dusk dark, it hide some things and reveal others more. So then he really gets excited. So these women know by nature that if they hide, make the face look like dusk is coming on it, that dusk dark is setting on it, the blemishes and the ugly things will be hid. And the shape will be accented you see. And the figure, the figures would be accentuated you see, in the darkness. So he looks behind the veil. And they know that men don't peep.

She wearing a veil, that man straining his eyes make out that image under that veil. he sees the shape of her mouth and her nose. And the whites of her eyes gonna show through that veil, you see. See's the white of her eyes and she's looking tempting. He's excited more by that woman behind the veil than he would be if the woman would take the veil off. Prophet Muhammad did not ask women to wear a veil. And I don't think any sisters should wear veils. Most of you don't. I haven't seen, I only saw one. I think I saw two sisters since I've been alive in this community, this over the whole history. I'm talking about my father too, the Honorable Elijah Muhammad and myself. Over the whole history, I think I saw two sisters wear veils. And they were some strange sight.

So, we don't wear veils. And you don't have to cover your hands, but sisters shouldn't come out with arms naked, naked arms. Wearing something here and your arms all naked. Don't come out with dress halfway up your legs, your legs showing. That's not good. It's not good for the society. It's not good for the mind of our little children. Don't you know little children, they respect their mothers and other women and even men more when they see women protecting and respecting themselves. That little child, whether a boy or girl. That little child is looking at mama, looking at the women. I heard a little child say, "I don't like to see my mother dance." And Allah let hear these things to help guide me and to help show me support for what I believe. He said, "I don't like to see my mother dance." And I saw in that, that little childs face that he had really been hurt. His mother had really hurt him. Who want to see, what little child want to see his mother, unless he's silly minded, or crazy, get up and shake her thing like she's eight or 10 or 12, 14 years old.

Sisters don't do that. If you want to exercise, wait till the children are asleep and they can't see you. And then you go down there with your husband and you shake your thing as much as you want. But in front of the children, don't shake yourself and act silly. "Ah, get it daddy. Get it daddy." You just ruining the society.

So, inn conclusion, I want to say that it is not because the woman is a tempter, it's because the man has made her a tempter that she should cover herself. If men had not been so vulgar minded, so physical minded, the woman would have never become a total sex symbol in the man's life. But it's because we have degenerated, that the women have become a total sex symbol in our life. The female, her arms and everything, are an excitement for our sex. So sisters, as long as this society is degenerated like this, please cover yourself. Don't leave anything out but your face and your hand. Wear shoes. Wear socks. Stockings. Wear shoes. Wear complete garment, covering yourself up. If you wear pants, don't wear pants that show every crevice. Don't show your hips. You got big, nice hips. A surprise is the best thing. Marry that man and give him that surprise. You'll be surprised how that'll hold him. But if you show everything to him before you're married, ain't no surprise on the wedding night. So he can't remember the wedding night, he remember the park night. The night he had you out there in the park somewhere. So if you want, remember the wedding night, then save all those good surprises until the wedding night.

Yes, just a moment. I'm finishing this right now. And then I want to accept one person and that's yours because you jumped up in the middle of the talk. Now hair, you know, a woman's hair. Say why cover the hair? I don't think hair has ever been an excitement to a normal man. I'm just going by myself. Hair have never excited me. Now I can understand men prefering a woman with long hair because they have identified long hair with beauty. It's beauty to them, it's beauty. But I never had that problem. And even those men who see it as a mark of beauty, I don't think they get any sex excitement or sex gratification from the long hair. I think they could have it long and short. In fact, I've never heard of a man pulling the hair out unless he was a freak. Pulling the woman's hair and carrying on there and carrying on. "Oh baby your long hair." You don't be saying nothing like that. You forget about your hair. So I don't think it's the hair you see. But the women have used their hair the same way those deceitful women use their veil. Woman with long hair, she'll take her hair and she'll throw it over a face like that, throw it over her face like that and then peep at the man sexy like that.

So, she has used her hair just as a signal, to signal the man's attention to her. She has used her hair. So since the hair have been used like this, then in the religion of Al Islam, the women are taught to cover their hair. When you go out in the public cover your hair. Now what is so much there? That's not a big burden in your life. I hear sisters complain about things. I say, good G-d Amighty, if these women knew just how little that was for her to do she wouldn't be complaining. "I ain't going to wear no long dress all the way down to my shoes looking like I'm some fool." You'll catch the same sister sitting on the public transportation with a man in front of her, and she be sitting up there doing this, looking at the man mean. Now if you don't want to go through those changes, why don't you just put that dress down to your ankle and go on, get on the public transportation.

Yeah. But they got something wrong back there in the back of their mind, you see? So she go there and she sit up, self all exposed. And as soon as some excited man, probably half drunk or maybe missing his wife, been kicked out of doors for a week or so. He look over there and he's all aroused, she notice him and she trying to pull her dress over her knees, looking at him-"Don't be looking at me old nasty fool you." So what is she dressed like that for? Cause she wanted to excite some nasty fool. So we know that Al Islam is the true way, is the best way, it's the right way and our own nature bears witness to it. So let us live this good life and save this fallen world. Because it's doomed. If the sisters don't help us pull it up, the world is doomed. Peac be unto you, As Salaam Alaikum.
Speaker 2:
I say for all of you sisters. Chief Imam, we really love you. Yes, give him another round of applause. Imam WD Mohammed.




