1975-August-22

Muhammad Speaks

Who Is The Original Man?

W.D. Muhammad


In the Name of Allah, the Beneficent, the Merciful; Peace and Blessings upon His Servant and His Messenger, Muhammad, forever. Amen.

As-Salaam -Alaikum

My Dear Brothers and Sisters,

This world of grafted Caucasian mentality has not taught us anything of value. We did not even know the original form of the knowledge we did receive. In order to really have knowledge, you have to have the earlier forms (original form) of that knowledge.
The so-called wise people of this world do not know the origin of their own alphabet, so they don't know the knowledge of words. They "see" words, but they don't "know" words.

If Black people in America had the true knowledge of words, they would get down off of stilts (platform shoes), throw away those big umbrella hats, come out of the sissy-looking dress they wear, and begin to act like normal people. We have been separated from reality for too long a time. The only way to rise into power and to grow as a people is to get back in touch with reality again.

In the Nation of Islam (the Body-Christ), we start you back on the road to reality by teaching you a new language or knowledge of words. As a kind of catechism for the students of Islam in North America, we ask the question, "Who is the original man?" The answer to this question is, The original man is the Asiatic black man, the maker, the owner, the cream of the planet earth, the father of civilization, and the god of the (physical) universe." This is a catechism that puts you back in touch with reality.
The original man in the language of the Church is "Adam." Adam is supposed to be the first man. What good is it for you to know the name of the so-called first man? What does the knowledge of that name have to do with religion?

When you talk about Adam and Eve and their eating the apple of forbidden fruit, you are using the language of paganism and calling yourself Christians. Your preachers, your bishops, and even your Pope have all been tricked by the Jews (Yakub) who never accepted the truth taught to them by their prophets. They gave Rome an artificial religion and you have come up as little children in the house of fools.
Who is the original man? "Original" means first and first means that which arrived naturally.

The original is that which has not been dealt with artificially, taken out of its original form, and put into grafted, artificial form. The original man is not the grafted man or the artificial man. He is that man that still has the form that he naturally came into from his Maker (his God), the Creator of the heavens and the earth.
The story of Adam in Genesis is not the story of the original man, it is the story of a boy. You do not call the being that is fresh from the womb of its mother a "man," you call it a "baby." You watch the baby boy grow up, and if he meets the necessary requirements, you might call him "man" on proof of his requirements. We have to see some qualifications before we call him "man."

In the days of plantation life and even after, the white man would not call a black man, 'man." He called us "boy." When you refer to a being as man you mean that he is into the knowledge. A slave-master cannot keep a man a slave; he can only keep a boy a slave. No slave-master will risk taking a man into slavery because a man knows how to work against another man, but boys can only wait for men to give them instructions.
The original man (original mind) developed naturally out of creation from its contact and its involvement with creation. The mind developed and grew naturally in the physical creation designed by God to bring the natural growth of the mind. That mind is the original man.

When we say that the original man is the Asiatic black man, what do we mean by "black?" We are referring to the man who was born in darkness and out of darkness and whose mind developed so strongly that it was able to bring light out of darkness.
We are not talking about physical light and physical darkness, we are talking about something that means much more than that in the language of society. We are talking about knowledge and ignorance.

The white man is "white" in this terminology because he did not originate in darkness, nor did he have the power to bring himself to birth (light)
out of darkness. The black man was in darkness, but he had power in that darkness to bring light out of darkness and light his world.
After he lit the world with his light, that light struck the Caucasian and brought him out of darkness into light. But the Caucasian had no power to bring himself out of darkness into light.

It was the knowledge of the black man that brought the Caucasian out of darkness into light; therefore he cannot call himself an original black man (natural mind). When he knew anything, he was in our world.
Mind you, we are talking about men and women—not about Jinns. "Jinns" and "Gentiles" refer to Caucasians who still live the life of savages and who have no civilized knowledge. They do not have the knowledge to build or to examine civilization or to analyze civilization, to interpret knowledge, to come up with corrections and new knowledge for advancement of the society.

The European did not become a man until the so-called African and the so-called Asian brought knowledge to him. When they gave him their knowledge, he began to grow and form a man in his Gentile body.
If the Caucasian is a man, where is his beginning? His beginning is in black knowledge (so-called colored knowledge), not in the white world. He does not call himself "colored," in fact, he separates himself from that kind of terminology. He would like to be called "abstract" because he hates any physical word or meaning for himself.

The white man has been completely grafted out of the original world into a make-believe world. In his make-believe world, everything that is physical is dirty.
He says that God is pure and holy—all light, all white. He says that he is white and that white is synonymous with light. He hopes that by using this terminology he can transform himself completely out of the physical world into some kind of spiritual or ethereal existence.

Look at the harm that has been done to the Caucasian man's mind. There is nothing real in him anymore—he has been made totally artificial. If you could understand the extent of the disruption and wrong interpretation that has taken place in the life of the European, you would understand what we mean when we say that he is a "grafted devil."
He is so completely out of touch with reality that we can't even call him an original devil because he is not his own maker. The original devil was a wise master. The grafted devil cannot be reformed or saved. The whole thing has been spoiled and there is no original material in him left to use to bring about a reformation. We must destroy him!

It is not cruel to destroy the grafted devil, it is a mercy. What kind of weapons will be used? The Book says that the real Satan will be burned in fire and destroyed with the fire of truth.
If you think physical blood has to be shed to kill the devil, you are very mistaken. The blood that pains the most, as it flows from the wound, is the blood out of the wound that is afflicted upon the mind. You can hit a man with one blow to the physical body and kill all sensitivity in him to anything that you do afterwards.

You don't know how to kill the grafted devil. You would try to punish him the way that he punished you—by whipping his physical body. Don't think that the same thing that hurts you will hurt a being that has become so unnatural that he is completely out of the original form.
If you would physically kill all grafted devils and leave their form in your mind, you would have a black hell on your hands. The way you think now shows that they have come into your being.

They dwell in your body and we see you doing the things to us that they used to do to us: lying to us; robbing us; poisoning us; selling heroin and all kinds of hard narcotics to our weak brothers and sisters and children; holding the weak among us in a physical bondage with the threat of a gun that you bought from the white man's hardware store.
We now have you in our hands in your black body but bearing the white man's mind in your being. If we would wipe all grafted devils out with a physical destruction, we would still have them on hand in your black body.

The germ of the devil-being first existed in a black body. When the European was walking around with no more knowledge than a wild animal and living off undeveloped land with no knowledge of civilization or science, black people had already corrupted their own world with corrupt knowledge.
A germ in their mind had already taken effect and had begun to make them enemies of each other and had begun to make them go to war with each other. Our lessons say that there was great dissatisfaction among the black people of the earth before the Caucasian, as a mind or as a thinking being, ever came upon the shores of civilization.

This germ in us brought about so much dissatisfaction that a dissatisfied segment of our population went off to themselves and came up with an idea to get more power on their side by grafting the European into their knowledge with wickedness, cruelty, lies, murder, and stealing. That alone tells us that you don't kill the devil by killing a physical being—you kill the devil by tracing the work of making the devil.
The first thing that you have to do is untie the knot in your mind and get free of the influence of the devil so that you can clean yourself up and get your strength back. Once you get strong enough to listen and look at the old world that once controlled you, you can have contact with that world of the colored man again.

We call the Caucasian white supremacist the colored man because his mind is colored. Asiatics, Africans, and people of the Islands have never had colored minds. If you go among the so-called colored people (black people of the earth), you will find black, brown, red, yellow, and even white skin colors among them. They never had a color problem among them until the colored mind came to them with "the color problem."
Nobody knew anything about racism until the colored man from Europe came up with the idea of white supremacy. Skin color classification is the most ignorant classification for people that anybody could come up with. Even children, if left alone, would not come up with such an idea for classifying people. They recognize that there is something stronger in people than the shades of their skin.

The people all over the world look just like the black people of America. The worst thing that could ever happen to us would be for us to take up the position of skin color. Nothing could hinder our progress any more than that because our physical features and our skin colors are multiple. We are a people bearing the likeness of people all around the world.
Almighty God has allowed this world likeness of people to develop in us so that when the knowledge of Divine Mind comes to us we can show the world that, not only do we bear the mind and the morality that is necessary for world leadership, but we represent their physical likeness too. Any people on the face of the earth can come and sit among the American black people and feel physically at home. There is no flag with enough colors on it to represent us.

The Truth teachings we offer to you on the knowledge of the original man (natural mind) will give you the power in creation to bring your mind out of the darkness of colored Caucasian mentality into the bright light of the sun of eternal truth. We have lit the world within with this glorious light and now our divine mission is to light the world with a new sun that will grow creation in the natural growth of Almighty God.

Thank you for honoring us with your time to read these few words.

Your Brother,
W. D. Muhammad

____________________________________________________________________

The Wisdom Of W. D. Muhammad:

In the physical world we see fire as something that is powerful to destroy things. Nothing brings about a more thorough and complete destruction of physical things in the physical world than fire. The wise men of religion only used fire in Scripture to tell you how thorough and complete the destruction of this grafted world would be when it came.
The soil, the oceans, the trees, nor the animals of the earth have ever rebelled against God, so why should God destroy the earth? It is the minds of men that have acted against truth, justice and righteousness and have brought the world to a state of hell, confusion, and ignorance.

To right this, someone has to come and renew the minds of mind. The minds of the people must be renewed (given new life) and given new soil for their knowledge to grow in. They must be given a new sun to feed the growth of that knowledge. Once that new world is brought about in the minds of the people, a new growth will start in the earth.
