1975-August-22

Muhammad Speaks

Tasteless Salt

W.D. Muhammad


In the Name of Allah, the Beneficent, the Merciful; Peace and Blessings upon His Servant and His Messenger, Muhammad, forever. Amen.

As-Salaam -Alaikum

My Dear Brothers and Sisters,


In the scripture, Jesus asked what good is salt if it has lost its savour. He meant that if salt has no power to give taste to the food or to draw poison out of the meat, it is good for nothing but to be thrown out as trash.
In this parable, Jesus was using the term "salt" to refer to the Torah as it was being preached by the Jews of that day. He was saying that although the Jews were preaching the Scripture, they were not giving any flavor to the people nor were they drawing the poison out of the society. The society was still tasteless, sick, and corrupt.

The salt had lost its savour and was fit for nothing but to be thrown out as waste. We say the same thing today to the Jews and the Christians. Their salt (religious teaching) has lost its savour and is fit for nothing but waste.
When Jesus made this statement to the Jews, he was aware that the Ten Commandments were in existence and that they were good laws. He knew that the Jews had much good knowledge, but that it was tasteless and that it had no effect to correct the problems of the world.

We recognize that much of the Church's teachings in this day and time are beautiful. It is the "sweetest" message that exists and the ring of love is all through it: "love and sacrifice;" "suffer peacefully;" and "love your enemy,"
This is a sweet message that sounds oh, so beautiful. But although you have been singing this sweet message for 2,000 years, the world that you have been singing to has been growing more and more in hatred, cruelty, moral filth, and corruption. That's proof right there that your salt has lost its savour.

Why do you hold onto something that is weak, corrupted and that gives you no protection, just because it looks pretty? You are like a man who wears a pretty, tropical suit in mid-January. Although the suit may be pretty and made out of the finest material, it is made for the warm weather instead of cold weather.
The Christian religion is a religion made for one season, but Islam is a religion made for all seasons. You can come out in any season with Islam and you feel comfortable, protected, and well-dressed. A Christian might come along dressed in more colors or with something a little more appealing to the eye than what we teach, but they are not dressed for the season like we are dressed. They might look pretty, but they are poorly dressed.

If you really had eyes for true beauty, you would see that our dress is really prettier. Christianity is old, artificial beauty with a lot of emotionalism—a skin-deep religion. We are not making mockery of the religion, but we make mockery of the ignorance of the people.
In this day and time, you just cannot stand on neutral ground. The seriousness of the time will not permit anybody to stand on neutral ground. You are either this or you are that. You are either for us or you are against us. You either want to bring right in existence or you want to keep wrong in existence. There is no neutral ground here!

The Divine Message that we teach is on time and there is nothing in your life that is out of touch with it. If you are talking about physical health, you need this message because most of your physical complaints start in the mind. Once you turn a man around in the mind, you've turned him around everywhere else.
Not only you as an individual, but the physical world itself is sick too. All of the talk of the so-called "environmentalists" who are concerned about the purity of air and water and the life of plants and animals is not going to correct a thing. Can't you see that?

The problems that you see in the world today are the results or the manifestation of the wrongs that people have done with knowledge. Correcting the knowledge will correct the problem.
The Bible and the Holy Quran speak of the material development of the society falling under the control of greedy people. The writers of scripture saw that the material world would come to a horrible end unless the artificial man of grafted mentality was stopped.
After the knowledge got corrupted, the wise people in religion didn't see any hope that it would be corrected and they saw it ending in destruction. They said that corruption would spread and that the seas and the air would be poisoned. The few curses that began in Genesis grow to many plagues when you turn to Revelations.

Today you see these things. The minds and hearts of the people are corrupted. There is no such thing anymore as decent love. The majority of the people don't even love their children these days with uncorrupted love. They love them for selfish reasons. They use their children for themselves and call it love.
Parents buy their children a lot of toys, but if you examine the situation closely you will see that the child is not really receiving the gift—the giver is just giving the gift so that they can tell their neighbor: "Look at my son. He has every toy that he could want. Look at my daughter. She graduated from the most exclusive school there is." That parent is not educating a daughter—she's pinning medals on herself.

The whole world has become so corrupted that the people don't even love naturally anymore. There is no pure love in the hearts of the people. If this is not the end of time, tell me when the end will come. Everything that we originally had as something of value, purity, and strength has been corrupted in this time.
People go to church now just for show. They are not conscious of what they are going for. They go to be entertained—to hear a singer or a band or to listen to a preacher who clowns a lot. The knowledge in the schools is failing the schools because the knowledge itself is corrupted. Mathematics is pure. With it, you are dealing with something as objective as you can get. But how much progress is being made in the field of mathematics today?

In Christian America today, the newspapers tell us that crime is the number one problem in the big cities. Instead of trying to get to the real solution to the problem, this society asks for more money. When you say that crime is the number one problem, you are really saying that the number one problem is the absence of strong, moral teaching.
Crime rises because there is nothing to check it. Moral strength is what checks crime and moral strength is gotten from a strong moral doctrine. The Christians say that the doctrine of love is the strongest moral doctrine you can get. They are wrong—love is the weakest moral doctrine you can get.

"Love" is just a word, and people interpret it like they want to interpret it. My love might be hate to you and your love might be hate to me. They say that the love of Christ is the right love. I ask you, who is teaching the love of Christ? Listen to the Church, they are not teaching it.
Love in the language of Jesus meant charity and giving to those who are in need what they need and not what you want them to have. There are many people today who will give you what they want you to have but they will not give you what you need. There are wise people who will give you money, but they won't give you knowledge because they know that knowledge is what you need.

We are shining the Light of Truth into every corner of darkness (ignorance) today because we know that knowledge is what you need to remove the demonic pollution of grafted Caucasian mentality from your mind. You have become infected with the pollution of grafted mentality because the salt (religious teaching) of this world has no power to draw the mental poison from your diseased mind.
The smoke (mist) mentioned in the above verses of the Holy Quran is a prediction or prophecy of the wretched pollution that we have today in the air over the big cities and in the bodies of filthy water.

Air pollution is so heavy today that, even from the air, it looks like a heavy fog or mist hovering between you and the ground. This pollution is waste from material accumulation—waste from automobiles, buses, airplanes, trucks, and factories of all kinds.
The man of this society has become so concerned about material accumulation that he has lost all sight of this deadly threat to his physical well-being. He has filled the atmosphere and the water with all matter of filth. Years ago people would not have believed that a day would come when you would have to go shopping for drinking water like you go shopping for milk.

The society is nowhere near getting its pollution problems under control. Now they have announced plans to put huge supersonic jet aircraft into service that will do a lot to add pollution to the natural environment.
You may ask, "Why do you tell us about things like this?" I tell you, brother and sister, because the leadership to solve problems like this is going to come from you.
You have been a child-like people. You let the Caucasian man run the world while you just sit down and wait for him to correct whatever goes wrong. You think that things like air pollution and water pollution are none of your business. It is your business!

The people of this society do not have the moral strength to deal with problems like this, but you do. I want you to know that you are neglecting your responsibility as a people when you let the Caucasian man check everything while you do nothing.
You don't even care about the damage that the culture around you inflicts on yourself or
your children. Hollywood brings out mind-crippling movies and the record industry produces lewd music to destroy your community. You sit down and wait for the Caucasian to change his mind about what he wants to infect you with, then you get up and blindly follow what he has to put out. He throws you from one extreme to the other.

Your cities have become so thick with air pollution that you can hardly go outside without coughing. What makes it so bad is that you see the brother and the sister with a pocketful of degrees outside coughing too, and not doing anything about it. You are still children because you wait for the white man to make the decisions. Why don't you complain?
I see you driving down the street and swerving around holes in the pavement big enough to swallow up you and your car. But you do nothing but keep driving around it and wait for the white man to come into your neighborhood, discover the hole, and then patch it up.

How can you ever control your communities or lead anybody if you are going to sit like children and wait for somebody else to come patch up your neighborhood and blow the smoke off your city. It's pitiful.
The Holy Quran has beautifully warned you of the day when this pollution would thicken up. I hope you understand that it is talking about a physical thing on the surface, but beneath it is talking about that thing which has manifested the physical thing. Pollution starts first in the hearts and the minds of the people. When filth and pollution build up there, the people lose moral vision and they let the whole world go.

The Nation of Islam (the Body-Christ) can remove all the pollution of this artificial, unnatural, grafted world from your mind with the infinite wisdom of Divine Mind. Once we do that, you can join us in our mission to return the earth to its natural state of beauty and peace that Almighty God has planned. Our salt will never lose its savour.

