MM/DD/YYYY
IWDM Study Library
1970’s Talim

By Imam W. Deen Mohammed
We have to see clearly our own principles, our own concerns. We have to have them so clearly outlined that we can in a moment define what our concerns are and show them distinct from what the concerns of the Israelis and from what the concerns of the PLO are. I don't know if all those people from the BilaIian American community are as socially and spiritually evolved as I am. I wish they were, but I don't know that they are. Ain't nobody going to penetrate my substance. Oh no, you ain't going to puncture my identity and have my fluids run out and mixed with yours. Oh no. I know who I am. I know what I'm about. I know what I believe in. I know where my belief is carrying me. The map is already made for me. I know what nations I can move into freely and what leadership I can embrace. I know clearly already.
When I meet leaders from across the water, I don't meet them as an outcast. I have a home, I have a dignified home, I have a rich home, I have a comfortable house. I have an indestructible house. I'm not looking for any place in somebody else's nation. So I can go out abroad and I can talk to people and I don't have to worry about them changing my mind and bringing me to their side. I know what side I'm on and what side I'm going to be on forever. And you can't know that until you find the truth, the truth that answers your questions. If you go away from here with a lot of questions Brother bothering you, then you better be careful of who you talk to over there. You might never get back home. And I don't mean back to the United States. I mean back to yourself. You might never get back home. Now how sweet it is to know the truth.
I've seen young fighters copy the experts and they think they're going to be successful like the experts simply because they were able to imitate the experts. They go in the ring and they look so pretty and they get about two or three wins. They think they're going straight to the championship because they look just like Muhammad Ali. Sometime before they get out of the amateur category, we hear he got knocked out, he's going downhill. Well, I would like to caution our black minded leaders, don't you try to imitate the Honorable Elijah Muhammad until you get some truth that he had. Don't imitate him and run out thinking you know everything and think that you have all the tools and power to do whatever you want to do. Don't get that kind of courage until you learn something that the Honorable Elijah Muhammad knew. And the Honorable Elijah Muhammad knew that in order to be successful in this America as an independent, you have to keep your own identity and never let it blend in or emerge with other interests outside of the United States. The Honorable Elijah Muhammad told us, don't flirt with the Arab. He said, I'm not raised here to make you an Arab or to turn you over to the Arab. He said, my purpose here is to make you something independent for yourself. Now, I don't have any fear like that of Arab influence, because I'm the Honorable Elijah Muhammad's son. Now if you be quiet, if you can be completely silent for a minute, I'm going to tell you what I mean. In fact, it might take me two seconds. Oh, I got it. I'm the Honorable Elijah Muhammad twice over. So I don't worry about no threats from the Arab world to this community. What I'm referring to now is a fear that they going to convert some of these people to their leadership. That time of fear is behind us. Allahu Akbar.
Dear beloved brothers and sisters. We have a number of problems in our own community that I want to quickly deal with before going into our message for today to you. Dear brothers and sisters, we have a Committee for the Removal of Images in the worship of G-d. Now, we know that the Bible tells Christians, Jews and Christians, make no image, make no image. But Christianity for the most of this history has been a religion giving us false images of the divine. The crucifix of the Holy Prophet Jesus, and many other pictures that have been made and statues that have been made are really against the Bible.
It is not the Western world fault. The people from the East who introduced Judaic Christianity to Europe, they themselves introduced a pagan, a pagan package and called it Christianity to the European people. They introduced idolatry. What they did, they compromised with the idolatrous religious thinking that was in Europe. Their object wasn't to convert those people to the truth. Their object was to make a friendly nation that was powerful, that had the capability of ruling the world physically. Their object was to introduce a kindred religion to those people, knowing that once those people embrace a kindred religion, those people would also protect them. They weren't after introducing pure religions to the European. Who am I talking about? I'm talking about the so-called Jews who introduced Christianity to non-Jewish people. I appreciate the brothers and sisters of the CRAID Committees throughout the nation who have supported my call for peaceful, respectful, quiet demonstration against images in the worship of G-d. But I have to caution you too dear people, because you'll find that every time we take up a good thing and devote ourselves strongly behind doing it, people who are hypocrites, who have other concerns, who have other things they want to do, they come in disguised as one of the Committees. Their object is not to work in the interest of the Imams program, their object is to disgrace the Imam. Their object is to discredit the Imam. Their object is to make people turn their heads from us in disgust. And let me tell you how you will know them. Those who struggle hard to win friends and to keep the peace and not offend people, they are supporting me. Those who say, "Let's go beyond this. Let's demonstrate violently. Let's disrupt their meetings. Let's obstruct the way. Let's make it hard for them to even pass to get into church. Let's put our signs in their way." They are not legitimate members of CRAID. Their purpose is to disrupt. They want to cause disruption. They want to cause disturbance. Their purpose is to embarrass us.
Those who claim they're supporting me and they put themselves in the face of the people dirty, looking all shabby, looking strange and weird. They are not supporting me. They're trying to sabotage my work. Those who are supporting me, they want to look their best because they don't want nobody looking down on what we are doing. About two weeks ago, I came to the Masjid on a Sunday and they're standing at the gate for something that it looked like it should have been in a insecticide commercial or something being sprayed on. Standing at the gate, eating a cantaloupe, eating a cantaloupe. A whole cantaloupe. Had it in his hand, looked like it was cut in half or broke in half, and he was standing at the gate right where everybody could see him as they come up to the Masjid, eating the cantaloupe, looking weird and crazy. Now, that man wasn't crazy. That man is sane, got good intelligence, but he want intelligent people from the society to think that this is what is here. Don't come to these people. Look, I represent what they are. These people are paid by Zionist devils and crazy minded, fanatical Christians who still think in the days of the Crusades. "We got to stop these Muslims."
They are the Anti-Christ. So, they send these dirty, filthy servants of the devil down here to embarrass us and take the people's attention away from us and make them think that we are a bunch of crazy people, a bunch of filthy people. We don't care about our appearance. Wearing this cap does not make me filthy, but if I carry myself in a filthy way and wear this cap, then I look double filthy. I look twice as filthy as a person who was dirty in an American hat. Because already our minds have been conditioned to see people who wear turbans and robes and things like this as filthy, less civilized than the Americans.
So, the mind has already been fed that image of a person wearing a cap like this or turban or fez, your mind have been conditioned to see him as somebody that don't care about the worldly things, who's just satisfied to walk around and pick up garbage off the street and eat it, beg for pennies. This kind of picture have already been put into your mind. So as soon as they see a brother with a fez on or a Gino cap or this so-called kufi, whatever you call it, that I'm wearing now, looking dirty and not caring about himself and carrying himself in a loose, disorganized way, right away they identify him with the picture that has been implanted in their minds long ago. They say, "Oh, these Muslims are disgracing America. Look how unkempt they are. Look how filthy and untidy they are. They look like bums. They look like beggars and bums." You know what I'm going to do for you beggars and bums. You beg and bum looking people. You're not beggars and bums. You look that way to disgrace us. I'm going to call the police and have you arrested. Every time I catch one of you loafing and hanging around out there giving us an ugly sight, an ugly face, I'm going to have the police arrest you.
And we know you. We going to stop you from coming in here. You've been told, now you keep that up. We get on one nut, they send a different nut. So, we put heavy pressure on one nut today a different nut was out there, but I know he is from the same enemy. The same enemy sent him. Allah has given us guidance for all the problems we have and all the problems this world can give us. Don't you think you can come up with a new trick. No loafing around the property, no loafing on the property or around the property. No hanging around this property. I don't want anybody to catch a Muslim on the street outside of the Masjid for more than a minute.
If you stop and speak to somebody and say "Asalaam Alaikum, Wa Alaikum Asalaam, and go. Don't stand for two or three minutes, five minutes, 10 minutes, 15 minutes talking to somebody out there. Don't even stand around within three or four blocks of this Masjid talking, because people are walking here too and you are standing around holding conversations and talking and they pass by you and you're talking something that's going to discourage them. They'll hear something you say. You are there purposely to send them in the opposite direction. So, you can do it, but you'll have to do it as the enemy you are. As long as you say you belong to this community, we are going to stop you from doing it. You want to do it, do it as the enemy you are. Come with a sign saying, I am Christian holiness, duty, duty, duty rule. Whatever you are. I'm a paid skunk for the Zionist movement. Just come with your sign identifying you and we won't throw you off. We won't throw you off the premises. We won't tell you to get away from in front of our Masjid You can come but identify yourself. Don't come around us pretending you are one of us and working against us.
I hope that's enough for that. And if it's not, we got a different remedy to follow. No Muslim belongs to this community should wear something that I don't wear. If I don't come to this Masjid in sandals, you shouldn't come in sandals. If you follow me how come you come in sandals? You going to come here in sandals. Why? If I don't wear the Arabian desert garb here, why should you wear it? If I come here with long Arabian desert garb, then you do it. Or ask me, "Imam, is this for all of us or is this just your dress? Is this to distinguish you as the Imam or the preacher or is this the dress for all men?" And if I say, well, I want all of you to dress, then do it.
I wear this cap, a round white cap on my head. Sometime I wear a different one that's a different color, and I wear some of those skull caps, knitted skull caps occasionally, but very seldom. And I carry myself in such way that people respect me no matter what I wear. When you wear a cap like this, it's called a prayer cap. Common name for this cap is prayer cap. You should be wearing it for prayer in your house, or if you wear it outside, you should be coming to prayer. If you going to work, why should you wear a prayer cap? Now if the man will let you pray on your job, you don't have to wear your prayer cap except when after you've made ablution, then put on your cap and make your prayer and after prayer, take it off and go back to work.
Let us get on a happy note. There's a program headed by a group of brothers and sisters, I believe included in New York, the pay off the heavy mortgage that's on the Malcolm Shabazz Masjid there in New York. The situation there for that Masjid is very serious. We stand to lose that Masjid. They could foreclose and we lose that Masjid. If it was just a building, I wouldn't be too much concerned. It's more than a building. It now has become a historical monument there in Harlem, where the dope addicts are concentrated perhaps in the greatest number. A community of people have sprung up, cleaning the ghetto, reforming and rehabilitating the drunks and the dope addicts. And the man most responsible for the progress made in New York, his name now is on that piece of property. Malcolm Shabbazz. That's too precious, too dear to us. We don't want to lose it.
And all Praise due to Allah, they have come to me with a very good relief program. The program of 300. All they're asking for is 300 people to allow their savings that is in the bank. Or if we can't find 300 with 1000 each savings in the bank, then we would like to see others increase their savings in the bank until there's 3000 donating to the project by sending it to the account that they have opened up. They have opened up an account at the bank, the monies can go directly to that account or you can get the news to the Committee of 300 telling them that I'm ready to have my thousand that is in my savings used for that purpose. And what happens is this- Your thousand is borrowed on. The bank already has it and it's doing you no good except bringing maybe 6% or whatever. It's doing you no good except a few pennies you're getting on it. It's just laying up there and the bank is already doing with your money what the Committee of 300 are asking you to let us do.
They're already lending, borrowing on your money. And the Committee of 300 is asking that that money be put into one account or into an account for this purpose. And if we do that, we can get the three, I believe it's $300,000 that we need to free Malcolm Shabazz Masjid and get it into our possession. I'm behind that program. I met the man I believe that is leading the program, Brother Marshall. I met him and I'm so impressed by him and his sincerity that I told him to carry the word back to Imam Ali Rashid. And tell him that I support that program wholeheartedly and that I will seek funds to match what they deposit.
They have already started and they've got I think better than thirty thousand dollars already into that account. The money they put in from here forth, I have also got into this program to save the Mosque in New York. From here on, I intend to find some money somewhere and I'm going to put it into an account. Every time they get a thousand let me know, I'm going to put a thousand in. I don't have it, but I haven't made any promises yet that Allah didn't bless me to fulfill. I don't have it, but Allah will bless me to find it and get it.
So, we thank Allah for those concerned Muslims who share our sentiment for the Malcolm Shabazz Masjid, it's history and what it means to the future for not only us but for the people of Harlem. That property is not only dear to us. I want you to know that. That piece of property is dear to many non-Muslims in Harlem. In fact, all Harlem identify with Malcolm Shabazz Masjid. And many of them are helping too. There are poor people under great strain there in New York. New York City itself is under grave strain, grave financial strain. Now I said that was a happy note and it was. Let me now strike another happy note. And I hope I'll be striking happy notes for the rest of the afternoon that we'll be here. Be very suspicious if you come up with a different report because I know my own. I don't know you. In order to fully utilize your own capabilities, you have to have some vision of your capabilities. You have to have some grasp, some mental grasp of your own capabilities. "Oh Chief, why are you telling us that?" Wake up! The biggest problem for our people is we don't have any ability to get started. We are like the person who never gets enough sleep. Every morning the blanket weighs 500 pounds. Have the clock alarm 10 times before you finally get up,
Reset it and reset it. Two more minutes. Let me time it to reset after two minutes. We are people that have a hard time moving out on things we know we should move out on. And I'm convinced that this problem with us is because we are the people that are least in control of our own selves. And the reason why we are least any controls of our own selves is because we are the people who least estimate our own worth and value. We don't know our worth. We don't know our value. We think we are cheaper than we are. We ain't cheap. We expensive people. We ain't small. We are big people. We ain't poor. We are rich people, but we just haven't evolved socially and intellectually enough as a community to utilize the power that we have. Are we about to get down to the nitty gritty? I believe we are.
Dear beloved brothers and sisters. The Honorable Elijah Muhammad, May G-d forgive him his sins and rest his soul in peace and grant him the place he has earned in the history of tomorrow. Or we say the history pages of tomorrow because the history is already here. Dear beloved brothers and sisters, that courageous Bilalian, the Honorable Elijah Muhammad, who never received an elementary diploma, not to mention high school and college. He was given courage, courage and faith in a package called English Lesson Number C1, the 34 problems, the 14 Question and Answers, the Student Enrollment, the Actual Facts. He was given courage in that package that was put together by his mystic teacher, mystical teacher, Professor WD Fard or Wallace Fard Muhammad. That man put something in his hands that gave him direction for establishing a religious black people organization or Nation of Islam in a nation. He got so much courage because of this new knowledge and new vision that he told his people, there is nothing that we can think of to do that we can't do if you just support me and follow me. The key to the success of his programs was only this: That you follow me and support me. He didn't ask for anything else. He didn't ask anybody to come in and write the religion, or write the law, or write the future plan. He said, I have the plan. All I want is you to follow me and support me.
He himself was directly in touch with what he had received. So, he didn't trust anybody else that was not directly in touch with what he had received. And the community came to his calling and they followed him and they said, "There's no G-d but Allah. And the Honorable Elijah Muhammad is His last Messenger." And they believed in and they defended it and they would bust your mouth wide open if you disrespected their leader. Why am I telling you this? Because it's good to reflect on our history. It's good to look back and see how you got where you are today. And we have got where we are today because, the Honorable Elijah Muhammad received a message and a teaching that he could trust with all his heart, mind, and soul. And a message that inspired him and encouraged him and the other members who followed him to improve their moral and physical lives. That's how come we are here where we are today. Now beloved brothers and sisters, if it wasn't for the new vision that Allah blessed me with, you would have gone straight to hell. Not only hereafter, but here and now. You would've gone straight to hell. We had to get back on the path of moral development, moral building or development, to save the leadership of the Nation of Islam from moral corruption, crime and abuses of their own members. Now all Praise are due to Allah. On this day addressing the many Masjids, I can say with full confidence that I have more moral strength and more spiritual strength in this following than we ever had in any following behind us. We are stronger now spiritually and morally than we have ever been since 1930 July 4th. I have brothers and sisters now that will not only die for the Honorable Elijah Muhammad, they will die for the Qur'an. They will die for Allah. They will die for truth and righteousness. They will die for each other.
This is the day that the Honorable Elijah Muhammad was trying to get us into. And isn't it wonderful that he only stopped about three or five years short of reaching the mark? Only about three or five years after his death. Don't think that this moral transformation and spiritual transformation that we call an evolution or metamorphism, don't you think it was possible without the Honorable Elijah Muhammad and without WD Fard. Don't think it was possible without them. No. Allah has blessed us. Allah has been working for us. And He didn't start with WD Mohammed. He started when the first man cried out and didn't have anybody to help him. That's when He started. Buddy, my bones. Oh, they shout inside my body. Yes indeed. My blood plays music as it flows through my veins. Every fiber of my being is having a jubilation because I know deep within my very genetic makeup, I know. Can't nobody tell me. I know. I know that Nat Turner is rejoicing inside of my genes. Oh yes, Oh yes. Frederick Douglas, Marcus Garvey, the Honorable Elijah Muhammad, WD Fard, they all having a jubilation inside my being. And saying "This is what we were waiting for. This is the day we pushed to get to." Oh yes, they pushed to get where we are now.
We are home. We are home. And now they're going to build a city. Man don't build a city before he get a home. A man first have to have a home. Then he build a city. All praises due to Allah. "Oh, tell me how is this possible that you rejected what your father teaches and you yet say that you are the continuation?" Allah says in the Qur'an that we began his creation from something no more than clay or dust. But when a man grows up and become a man, he washes the clay off of him. He washes the dust off of him. That's where he began. He's not saying it is not useful, he's just saying that I have grown out of it. Clay and dust is still useful to man, but he doesn't want what was in the beginning his very being. Your very being started with something that was no more than clay or dust, water, human semen, blood, a clot of blood, a fetus lump. Now we wash off the dust, we rub off the clay from our hands and we wash off any blood that get on us, but that's where we came from. We came from mysticism, symbolism, a lot of superstitions, we came from many false concepts. I don't think we are throwing out the baby with the water. We are just throwing out the wash water. We're keeping the baby. Told you once and I tell you over there again, you want to see the Honorable Elijah Muhammad that built this nation that's called the Nation of Islam in America, now The World Community of Islam. Do you want to see the Honorable Elijah Muhammad? Look at me again.
Yes, the man doesn't die with his body. The man dies when people put down his dreams. But as long as there's somebody to inherit his dreams and work for his goals, the man is not dead. How sweet it is that the one to pick up the best that he himself had when he passed is from his own loins. Oh yes, I'm from his very loins. Now you may say you got his teaching, but if you are not from his loins, you don't have his genes. And let me tell you something that science has discovered here recently. They have discovered that the whole mind, the whole experience of the human being is clocked into his genes. And if it's the will of G-d, whatever part of that man and his experiences that G-d wants to pop out in another one from his loins, baby, it can happen if G-d want it to have happen. You know you've seen the child of a person twitching like that person. They got the same twitch his mother had. It is in the genes baby. How sweet it is.
Dear beloved brothers and sisters, what I'm trying to tell you is this. I am in accord with every good thing the Honorable Elijah Muhammad has done. And it's easy for me to follow and improve upon that because actually I'm from that man's physical body anyway. If I wanted to be different, I could be different. If I didn't like what he did, I could reject him and I could become as foreign to what he wanted that perhaps some of these people who will now look at me as the enemy. Yes. Dear beloved brothers and sisters. There is more to what has happened here than meet the eyes. And it takes Allah to bless you with the full understanding. "Oh, are you the Honorable Elijah Muhammad reincarnated?" No, we don't believe in reincarnation. I'm the Honorable Wallace D Mohammed with new support because of my new insight into the workings or the teachings and workings of the Honorable Elijah Muhammad. Allah blessed me to see into his works and into his thinking where he wanted to go, into his psychology. I was able to see even into his psychology. So, Allah blessed me with that knowledge of the Honorable Elijah Muhammad's own thinking. And because of that, I'm twice the man that I would be, that I would've been, pardon me, had I not been blessed to see into the Honorable Elijah Muhammad. Because now I have his great tools plus my own tools. Yes. "Oh, I don't believe it." That's okay. Forget it. Dear beloved Muslims, the Honorable Elijah Muhammad, from reading the lessons that were given to him by his teachers, he took up the same psychology and he began to work it consciously, or who knows, maybe unconsciously. He began to work that psychology.
His teacher told you, Oh, very, very fascinating things and very, very unbelievable things or incredible things about yourself and your own worth and power. Some of you couldn't even control a toothbrush. You didn't have the ability to handle a toothbrush. But the teacher who taught the Honorable Elijah Muhammad, he said that you were the G-d. You were the G-d, the owner, the maker, cream of the planet Earth, the father of civilization and G-d of the universe. That's what he told you. That's from the lessons that were given by the mystic WD Fard or WF Muhammad. Dear beloved brothers and sisters, he also told you the square miles of the earth, how much water and how much land, the heights of the mountains, the weight of the earth. Six Jillion tons. Then he challenged your imagination to even conceive the full expanse of the whole universe. He said the diameter of the universe, 76 quintillion miles. The Honorable Elijah Muhammad applied that psychology in his efforts to get you to support programs that was needed to improve your physical conditions. He applied the same psychology. You didn't have nothing. You making $40, $39.76 a week. And he said, "We want to buy up about 50,000 acres of the best farmland in the south."
You want to know where the great worth or great powers of the Honorable Elijah Muhammad lies? It lies in his psychology, that's where it lies. His greatness lies in his psychology. And that's what you all haven't understood that still bicker with me. And he got that psychology from his mystic teacher who was a whiz of the Jacobite schools. "They plan and Allah plan and Allah is the best of planners." That's Qur'an. Dear beloved brothers and sisters, the Honorable Elijah Muhammad was successful in maintaining his community without the help of government and without the help of outsiders. For about 40 years, he was able to rent and buy Temples and Mosques, and open schools and buy buildings and open restaurants and grocery stores, and import fish and import other goods in the volume that really made his community a big corporate, big corporative entity in its financial power. It had become like a big corporate entity. Oh yeah. Where did all that money come from? You? How was he able to get it? Because you had unshakeable faith in the Honorable Elijah Muhammad. How did he get that kind of support from you? How did he cultivate or generate that kind of faith for him in you? How was he able to do that? Allah has blessed me to see that great powers, great nations have been built by two methods. Not many methods, two. One is by following truth, devotedly, spiritually, religiously. And never deviating from it though it means your life, your fame, anything. No matter how great the loss is, you don't deviate from it. That's one way. That's the way that G-d want us to go. The other way, and it's successful too in terms of the material gain because Allah say He has opened the gates of material blessings to all the good and the bad people. But that doesn't mean they're going to get the human reward or the human enjoyment. They may have it, but it might be a curse on them. It may torment them. They may never be happy. They may die weird, miserable, you see. But He said that He haven't closed against the material things to anybody. They're open for all and that they are tests as well as poverty. They are tests on the individuals.
So let me explain to you the other way now. The other way to become the superior on this earth is to follow the path of falsehood and follow it just as devotedly. Sacrifice all, your all for falsehood, even your life. Everything. Sacrifice everything for falsehood. And just like truth, truth encourage us to promote truth. To want truth, to spread truth. One who give himself to lies, he is urged on to promote lies, to impart lies, to spread lies. And the one who's capable of telling the biggest lie will be the biggest ruler along that avenue. No nation before America told a lie as big as the lie America told. America told the biggest lie. Now pardon me, I have to correct that. It wasn't America. Christianity in Europe told the biggest lie that was ever told before in the history of human beings.
So, the one who has the courage to tell the biggest lie will become the chief of the liars and the one who has the courage to tell the greatest truth will become the leader of the truthful. Allah has designed this. Allah has designed this. He has made it so you can succeed in the material world by telling lies and going after material things. You can succeed by being wicked, wicked, by being a total devil. You can succeed but you'll not get happiness. You will not find peace. This world that we have known that we call Western world or Christianity, it is a world that has followed the path of the biggest liar, and it has come into the biggest material rewards. On the other side, we have the sincere religious people who refuse to follow the big liar. They have also progressed. Out of their struggle have come WD Mohammed. Oh yes. And before me, many others and with me, there are many others. Around this world there are many others, but I don't think none as significant as I am. "Oh, that's, how can a man, he's awful proud and boastful. Conceited." Maybe you can digest it better if you say it. So maybe I should use the New Testament word. "Who do you say I am?" And the one that gives the best report I'll face on that rock.
I don't deal in those mysteries anymore, my job is to bring you out of those mysteries. I'm just speaking plain truth. I know of no leader in religion that is more significant at this present time that I am. And it's simply because I understand what G-d has done for us. That's how come I say that. I understand what Allah has done for us. Dear beloved brothers and sisters, the Honorable Elijah Muhammad, he got into the path of that movement that goes out for material gain and use the tool of the instrument of lies. The biggest lie. The biggest lie is a lie told on G-d. G-d is the biggest. Allahu Akbar. Means bigger. Bigger. Allah is the biggest and the biggest lie that you can possibly tell is a lie told on G-d. Judaic Christianity gave the Gentiles, so-called Gentiles, the European Western world, the biggest lie that was ever told in the history of human beings. WD Fard coming up as a social experimenter, writing his own satire, indicting what they had done. He created a model. He assimilated their evil under different names and different words, but the same old evil. He assimilated their evil and produced the kind of model laboratory that speaks out against the evils of this world. Say, "Oh yes, now look at you. You can't defend yourself. Here we got a black nation going up in your white America and you can't defend yourself. Here we got black religion growing up in your America and you can't defend yourself. Here we got a black G-d growing up in your America and you can't defend yourself. Here we got black supremacy growing up in your America and you can't defend yourself. We got belief in the true blood growing up in America and you can't defend yourself. Why? Because you are guilty of everything this says."
Oh, now you tell me I'm not the inheritor. Show me another one that got within one tenth, 1 millionth of this that I have come upon. Oh no. Dear beloved brothers and sisters, this is worth a lifetime. In fact, this is worth all the lifetimes behind us. Some of you grasp it in language, others of you can't get it in language, but you get it in spirit. You can't tell people what you understand what I'm saying right now. If you had to tell them what I'm saying, you can't tell it with your tongue, but you understand it with your heart and your spirit and you'll go before a firing squad before you let it go. I know it. I know it. The disbelievers don't know, but I know what we got. Now, brothers and sisters, I have made this statement before. Some of the highest educated people in religion. A big gathering of them, they had invited me to make a talk to them. I made that same statement. Do you think a one of them stood up and challenged? Look, they responded to my delivery as though I was a Pope. The only thing they didn't do is kiss my hand. Why am I telling you in this? I'm telling you that there are people who have been closer to the knowledge than you. And it only takes a little light to bring them right in contact with the facts. Whereas it takes a lot for you to see because you have never seen, and you have never been close to it. Nobody never even directed you in the right direction to get it.
Now, brothers and sisters, these concepts that was put on this community were really a challenge and a dare to America. Saying, "We are doing something you don't like. We are doing something you don't like. We know we're doing something you don't like, but just try to condemn it. Every time you condemn it, it's going to wake people up. They're going to say they doing the same thing. Hey, what you people talking about G-d is black? Right away the people will say, but you all say G-d is white. What are you people talking about that you have some divine origin that white people don't have. And there'll be people that say, you white folks told us that you have divine origin that we don't have because they have done this, and they have done this in schools of theology.
They have said that the demon, the devil is black and G-d is white. And they call Satan that old black angel that fell from heaven." So actually, they couldn't touch us. To touch us meant to bring more attention to the evils that they themselves were living in. So, you have these two ways of getting supremacy in the earth. One by giving your whole life and your total being and self to Almighty G-d and to truth and righteousness. The other way is to go out, to tell the biggest lies. To go out just to make it your object to convince people to believe in the biggest possible lie and to follow it. Once you do that, you got a world. Yes, you've got a world.
So, I return now to the question, how does the Honorable Elijah Muhammad get the power to produce that kind of faith for himself in you to make you support him like you did and give up your all. And turn from everybody else and say, I don't believe you. The Honorable Elijah Muhammad is right. I don't want to hear nothing you got to say. So, we asking the question again. How was he able to affect that kind of faith and confidence in you? It was because he used the same tools that had been used to get your blind obedience behind Christianity and the white man. The same tools that had been used to get you to submit to the white man and follow blindly Christianity, it was used on you to get you to follow black G-d and follow blindly the teachings of the Nation of Islam. Same tools. He didn't strain your imagination to try to see G-d as something that is not of creation. You already believing in a flesh and blood Jesus as the G-d. So, all he did was give you another flesh and blood and say this is G-d. And then another thing, the church had always strained your imagination. You couldn't understand the devil. You were given a physical G-d but a spiritual devil. So that burden of bringing your imagination to try to understand the being of the devil was taken off when Fard Muhammad said, "The white man is the devil." You say, "I knew it, I knew it." You always suspected that, but you wouldn't allow yourself to think it. History records a woman, a woman by the name of Julia, a slave. She said, and it's recorded in history. I can't report to you the book now. I think that statement is in the book called A People Who Walk In Darkness. I think that's the name of it. I think that's the book. I think in that book is found also this statement, Julia the Slave said, when she was commenting on the evil treatment that the slaves received at the hand of the white slave master, she said, "You people." Now listen to this good. Listen people and think. She said, "You people look like G-d in the face, but act like the devil in your heart." What did she mean "You look like G-d in the face?" Genesis said that G-d made man in His image and in His likeness. Now we know that in religion you don't think of no physical image. People in religion think of the spiritual, the moral image, the spiritual image, not the physical image. But this woman, this lady said, "You people look like G-d in the face."
Enter Here


