01/18/1975
IWDM Study Library
FOI Class NYC
Pt. 1

By Imam W. Deen Mohammed
In the name of Allah, the Beneficent, the most merciful, to whom praise is due forever, for His coming and creating for us, out of us, a leader, teacher and guide, and the person of Honorable Elijah Muhammad. Brothers of the Fruit of Islam, leaders here in Temple #7, Minister Farrakhan and his assistance, Brother Captain Shah and his assistant, the secretary and his assistant, and our Captain from the West Coast, Captain Rashid, and all of you who are leaders under the Honorable Elijah Muhammad, for the good of the Nation of Islam, I greet you, as-salamu alaykum.
Audience: Wa Alaykum As-salam.
IWDM: Beloved brothers of the Fruit of Islam, the soldiers, men, I greet you, as-salaam alaykum.
Audience: Wa Alaykum salaam.
IWDM: It's a great pleasure, great honor, for me to be welcomed here among you. I'm just overjoyed.
Minister Farrakhan: We are too!
IWDM: The reception I have received is just too much for me.
Audience: We love you.
IWDM: If I didn't know just how all of this love has come to me, I think I would just fall out on the stand here. It would be too much, I would faint, but knowing that this love was divinely made. That the G-d Himself put this love in the Honorable Elijah Muhammad. And when He put that love in the Honorable Elijah Muhammad, then we responded to that love because we had been starved for over three centuries. Starved. We didn't have love. But when we found love in the Honorable Elijah Muhammad, then we really came alive to love. And when we see someone from the Honorable Elijah Muhammad, it puts before us the picture of that one who put that love in us or brought us alive to love. We are very blessed, very much blessed. Brothers, we are blessed more than any people that ever lived on the face of the earth. I hope you just have patience with me.

I prepared some notes, somethings that I want to talk to you about. But before going into these things, I just have to tell what's being said right now in the heart, you see? That's a new message that just came to me while I was sitting here.

We have to give the fresh first, you see? Then I'll go back to the old notes. You know the world accepts the Bible and the importance that the Bible place on certain people. The world has accepted this. As the people in the Bible, we know as the Jews, you see? They have in the Bible their history, some say that those first Jews were black, but the Honorable Elijah Muhammad hasn't given us anything to make us feel sure that we can say that they were black.
We know that all of the people were black in their origin, but we don't know whether the scripture goes back to that when it's talking about the Jews, you see? But we have in the book, the Jew, and how he suffered, how he lost his unity and lost his kings, his great kings that were all with them, keeping them in unity and keeping them strong, how the leadership of the Jews were weakened, and made it possible for stronger people to take them over, you see, and put them in bondage.
We read of that bondage in Egypt, so the script says, and how they suffered, had to pray for people who are not their own people, had to do the work that their rulers didn't want to do; they had to do it, the bad work, the painful work, the sad work, work that make them sad and hardened, tired; tired bodies and sad, sad and tired, you see? How they suffered for centuries under that, and how they were expected a deliverer all the time.
They didn't feel that that was justified, that they should suffer like that. They felt that that was wrong, a people just shouldn't have to live like that under another people, under a cruel task master. They were expecting a deliverer, you see? Finally, we are told in the scripture, that one was born and put upon the water, and floated down into the palace of the ruler. That child was given the name Moses.
This Moses came up in the house of the enemies of his people. He served Pharaoh, the enemy of his people. He gained knowledge of how to conduct himself as a leader in the house of the enemy, in the kingdom of the enemy. His people came one day and told him that you are the deliverer. Here we have a man being told by his people that he is to be their deliverer. Moses finally grew more and more into love and sympathy with his people, and he just had to break with the ruler, with Pharaoh and his kingdom, and accept the responsibility of leading his people. When we study our history, the world accepts this, right?
They accept this. The Christian world accept this, and they believed this the synagogues believe it, the churches believe it. That those people deserved an answer from the lord of the world. Because they were suffering under their task masters, you see, that they deserved an answer from the Lord of the worlds. Moses was given and they accept that Moses was a divinely raised and guided man, you see? Now, go back a little further into the history of those people and we find that they had prophets coming to them and helping them out when they weren't in quite that bad a condition, you see. They weren't suffering that severe of an uncomfortable or discomfortable life.
Now, we come to our people, who were brought from their land, brought over here, and put in the same kind of bondage, but suffered more. We also suffered a breaking of communications between ourselves and our people. Not only that, communication with G-d was also broken. In the place of the break in the communication with our people, we were given a relative called the white man. And you know what kind of relative that was, you see. Then in the place of the break between the G-d and ourselves, we were given Jesus, the image of the white man, you see. Now the world should readily accept and agree with us that it was time for G-d to answer us. If there was a reason for him to answer the Jews, there are 10 reasons for him to answer us.

So, what we want to tell the religious world, when I say the religious world, I mean Muslims, Christians, Jews, Buddhists, Hindu, whatever they are. If they believe in divine power, what we want to tell them, that if they don't accept that G-d answer the black man in a divine way equal to or greater than the way that He answer other nations in scripture, then they might as well take all of these holy books and use them for tissue paper, because they don't mean nothing, they don't mean anything. We are applying the rule of common sense, that's all. We applying the rule of common sense.
If G-d answers some Jews who were crying under Pharaoh, and then we compare their history with ours, our cries were louder, our scars were deeper, our affliction covers the total person. Afflicted physically, afflicted mentally, afflicted morally, afflicted spiritually, and afflicted as a human being. Denied us, recognition on the level of human beings. For over three centuries they did that, and said that we were people all right, but not quite people on a human level with white people.
We had a level between the white people and the monkeys. They taught us this for centuries and we had nothing to use as an argument against what they were saying. Simply because they had stripped us of all knowledge, all history, of all the tradition. Not even a surviving word was among us from our grandparents, or from our fore parents. Nothing to go on, all we had to go on is what they gave us and they gave us a picture of ourselves that was tainted to take out whatever energy that might arise in a man.
Maybe the man would be sitting out in the field, and would see the water rise up from the earth, and would see water come down from the heaven, and would see the animals satisfy their thirsts upon the water that comes down, and see the life grow, and how the rain and the sun acts to strengthen the life, the growing the life. Maybe the man just watching this will come up with ideas to encourage him that if there's a being providing for these creatures, if there's a being washing the atmosphere with fresh rain, that maybe someday soon there will come a washing to wash this filth off of me that the world has put on me.
But the man couldn't even look at nature and get an encouraging word because the white man had completely taken over his mind. Had burdened him so and emptied him, so emptied him of all aspirations for self. Kept him burdened with fear. He didn't have time to use his free moments to recreate himself. He was just left totally in the dark and alone at the mercy of a merciless world. Where can we find now in history, any people who suffered losses to that degree? No people can but be found in history who have suffered losses to the degree that we have suffered losses.
So, if we are saying to the world now, “That G-d has heard. Allah has heard,” They shouldn’t be surprised. They should say, “we believe that G-d had heard, because we know that He heard others before you who didn’t suffer as long as you suffered. Who wasn’t scared as deep as you were scared. And wasn't dismembered, as thoroughly as you have been dismembered. And G-d heard them and sent them, and raised for them a deliverer. So, we know that a deliverer has come to you from G-d.” They should say that.

All praise is due to Allah. So, a man came from the East. When we read the Book, we read of men coming from the East. When we look into the Shriner's wisdom, we read of men coming from the East. So, one came from the East and told us, "Did you know you were from the East too?"
My dear beloved brothers, believe me, I feel you clapping when you're not clapping. Let's save some time and- I know you're clapping, but hold up. Let's give this time to talk. All praise is due to Allah. Thank you. A man comes from the East. He tells us, "Do you know that you are also from the East? Your home is in the East. You were brought from the East.” This one from the East, he came just as any other man. He didn't resemble an angel or a spook. He didn't come with wings flying through the sky. He came walking with shoes. He had underclothes and pants. A shirt. A tie. He had a jacket, suit coat you see. He had a hat.
The Honorable Elijah Muhammad, he looked at this man. He said, "This man, he is saying that it's time for us to have a deliverance." He is saying that its time that G-d take over for us. The Honorable Elijah Muhammad says, "This man must be the Christ. This must be the Christ that we are reading about in the Bible that will come at the end of time." He didn't tell the Honorable Elijah Muhammad this. The Honorable Elijah Muhammad is thinking this. He continued to preach, telling our people, the Honorable Elijah Muhammad, how we came to fall in this ditch.
How we came to have cruel feet standing upon us. As he continued the teachings, explaining to us our problems, speaking to the Honorable Elijah Muhammad, telling him the things that we are suffering, bad health, poor health, the inability to think clearly, the absence of love in the heart for self and kind. As he began to teach this to the Honorable Elijah Muhammad, the Honorable Elijah Muhammad began to see into the suit of clothes, into the light, Caucasian like complexion, into the straight cavy-like hair, into the skull under the skin, until he touched the mind of the man that came to him from the East. It wasn't in his hair that he saw any divine. It wasn't in his complexion that he saw anything divine. It wasn't in his suit or in his hat that he saw anything divine, but it was in his mind. And the operation of his mind. And the object that his mind was going out too. For even if he had seen that mind and had seen that mind going out to the white world or out to the Arab, he still wouldn't have recognized G-d in the person, but because he saw this mind, this divine and light pouring mind, because he saw that mind pouring its light, and his sympathies out toward him and his poor people, he saw that, yes, G-d has come.

All praise is due to Allah. I just get a thrill out of tying things together.

I already made a big knot. And I tied it to stay tied. And it’s going to lift a lot of weight. And it’s not going to come loose. I'm not going to point to that knot again. I'm going to keep on going. All praise due to Allah. Now, think about this brother. Think about this, Master WD Fard, or Master WF Fard, he used both of those names. Master WF Fard, and he used Muhammad too. I hope you are wide awake today. 

Look, don't think I'm ignorant of the burden that you have to carry. No, I know the burden you have to carry. I know that you have to miss sleep. I know what you have to do. Don't think I don't know that, but if you want to keep your eyes open and your ears open today while I'm here, Allah will keep them open for you. When the Honorable Elijah Muhammad told me, "Well, now, son, you can come back to me," I went back to him and I told him, I said, "Daddy, forgive me for speaking like that to you." When I say Daddy, I'm saying everything else. Daddy, to me, means everything. I said, "Daddy, where there's a will, there's a way.
It was just something that was prompted automatically in me to say that to him. I had nothing of no forethought of it or anything, but when I saw him, that's all I could say, "Daddy, where there's a will, there's a way." About two months later, I came to the house and I greeted him and we embraced each other and kissed each other on the cheek. He said, "Son, that is true. That old saying. Where there's a will, there's a way." Two months later. That shows you that this is divine. If it wasn't divine, it would have been answered normally, but it wasn't answered normally, it was answered divinely. Before I go on and continue this talk, I want to tell you, brother minister Farrakhan and all of you loving brothers, ministers and secretaries and captains and all of you loving Fruit of Islam, where there's a will there's a way. Don't think we have problems, we don't have problems, and you wouldn't have a problem if you took your proper place in this body we call “We”.
But if you try to jump to the shoulders or jump to the heart and your an organ that's in the right region of the loins or kidneys or something, quite naturally, we have problems when you speak because, you're speaking as a kidney, not as a brain. It's a kidney speaking with the voice of a brain, and that produces problems, right? If the kidney speaks with the voice of a kidney, the kidney will say no more than the brain says, and the brain says, "We don't have any problem." All praise is due to Allah.
Let me tell you something about this body, brother. It's easy to follow objects because they don't demand anything of us but that we look at them with our physical eyes. If I put this book here and this book here is easy for you to follow it, there's no complications for you, nothing bothers your mind, right away you say, "Bible and Quran," right? In the kindergarten, the kindergarten's children are given physical objects to play with.
They play with A-B-C blocks, they play with certain tools. They can have clay and work the clay and shape the clay, and they look at pictures. Why? Because they are growing up out of the earth. Now, as brother ministry already told you that I'm different, so I don't want you to go wrong in your thinking. I don't want you thinking that I am getting away from something. If I don't say the Honorable Elijah Muhammad's name as often as you hear it come from the mouth of the minister, then do not worry, just listen. The Honorable Elijah Muhammad is my spiritual father as he is your spiritual father.
He is my savior as he is your savior. "What is this man talking about? The savior is master WD Fard." I've heard that all my life, if you want to tell me that, you are not telling me anything new. I'm talking about is savior the Honorable Elijah Muhammad.


