1976-August-27

Bilalian News

The Responsibility Of Motherhood

Imam W. D. Muhammad


In the Name of Allah, the Beneficent, the Merciful; Peace and Blessings upon His Servant and His Messenger, Muhammad forever, Amen.

There is no god hut Allah, Muhammad is the Messenger of Allah.

As -Salaam –Alaikum

My Dear Brothers and Sisters,
I have taught you that woman means "womb of man," which is "womb of mind."

Sisters, I am here to do what "women's liberation" can never do for you. The people who are leading that movement may have the natural sense or the natural makeup to lead you, but they will never get out of the dark of this world's false concepts of "woman." God has blessed us to come out of all darkness into the Divine Light of Truth.

Every woman is designed by nature to be the womb of mind. Whether your sex is male or female, you came from the physical womb of a female. This is true whether you are male or female as a mind or as a psychic creation.

The ancient masters had great wisdom and they went about solving the problems of the society in the right way. They first learned how to identify the nature and the workings that went on in the individual. That gave them the knowledge of how the society operated and what to do to correct the problems when something went wrong.

The child is first flesh in the mother. It comes out as a fresh, new mind (fresh, wet clay) and grows under the guidance of the mother. The worst thing that could ever happen to hurt the growth of the child is for the father to take over the rearing of the child from its mother.

No father should take over the rearing of his children from the mother, especially when they are under the age of 12 years. Their nature during this period is to be fed by mother and not by father. If you interfere with this natural growth, you will damage the healthy development of the child.

In designing this creation, the Almighty Creator gave mind first to the female so that she could do her job and then release it to the world of the males.

Sister, if you try to do your job in such a way that it is impossible for the male to possess your product, as its teacher you are doing the worst possible thing you could do. You are giving destruction into the hands of society.

The man cannot do what you have undone. He cannot do what you have failed to do. If you give him something that you have worked on and made a destructive tool against manhood, there is nothing for the man's world to do but bust its head, throw it in jail, or shoot it down in the street.

Sisters, you are killing your own children because you don't know the proper way to raise them. You don't know your God-given role because you don't know the design of the machinery we call "human beings." Since you don't know the makeup of that machinery, you destroy it when you try to operate it.

Remember, Sisters, that every female is a man (mind) just as every male is a mind. "Woman" is also said to mean "woe unto mind," or "curse on mind." No female is a "woman" by nature or by Divine design, but many of you have become "women" because of the grafted mentality that you have lived under.

You have become a curse to mind. Your young men can't develop in your home like they should because you are a curse on their minds.

It is time for you to wake up. Come out of that false artificial world that forms you as an artificial human being. You are living in a world of lies and false mentality.

Come to the Nation of Islam (the Body -Christ) and learn how to properly perform your rightful role of woman (womb of mind) for the glory and honor of Almighty God.

Your Brother, W. D. Muhammad
