The Man and The Woman in Islam
(booklet from 1976)
The Honorable W.D. Muhammad


7. He Who has made
Everything which He has created
Most Good : He began
The creation of man
With (nothing more than) clay,

Holy Quran Yusuf Ali Translation Sura XXXII: Verses 7


Wisdom of W. D. Muhammad

A great lesson in the Bible is that the man or the woman ran never commit a sin that is too big for God, in His mercy and compassion, to wipe it out and to forgive you. God will do this if you are willing to change and to move towards the righteous image of a human that He has intended for you.

This is the message in many Bible stories. Prophets are used to represent or to describe their people. It is not that the prophets did the unrighteous things that are attributed to them, the people that the prophets led and ruled over committed certain sins. God forgave the people directly because of the goodness of the prophet.

In the scripture, people and prophets are put under one description and one picture that identifies the whole kingdom. The church has never corrected our false thinking on these things. Instead, they let us go on thinking that God chose people and prophets who committed great sins against Him and against their fellowman. When you commit a great wrong against yourself or against the society, which is also against yourself, you pay for it. If you are willing to reform, to correct your ways and to go in the right direction - God has ruled in His mercy and forgiveness to accept you and to wipe out your bad record.

53.    Say to My servants That they should (only) say Those things that are best : For Satan doth sow Dissensions among them : For Satan is to man An avowed enemy.

Holy Quran Yusuf Ali Translation Sura XVII: Verse 53

____________________________________________________________________


MAN

The world is faced with a serious problem of kindergarten mentality. In kindergarten, the child is taught to draw pictures, to recognize and to identify pictures, to paint colors, and to recognize and to identify colors.
This type of child mentality has become the mentality of the people of the Western world. They do not see mind, they see human flesh colors.

God has blessed us with the tongue of truth that will bring you into a new life that will put you in control of your own destiny. The divine knowledge that we teach will solve the problem of kindergarten mentality that has afflicted the world that shaped you.
A great knowledge that we have been teaching you is that "man" (in the symbolic language of scripture) means "mind" and that words make people. People are the products of words. A human being does not start to form in the flesh body until words reach his ear, his eye or affect his senses in some way.

The higher teaching of man is in the divine book of scripture, but the world is so far from the real understanding of these books that they have no more value to you than 50-cent pamphlets. They have no value to you because you are not able to read the precious knowledge in them.

If someone can go into the divine books and unlock the secrets and the mystery of the language so that you can read them as the great past builders of civilization and society read them, you will suddenly come into a new world of reality. You will be able to read the signs of the time, you will be able to tell this world of grafted

Caucasian mentality just how long it has to live; and you u ill be able to foster a new world into existence that will live forever as long as it follows the divine truth that you have discovered.
Believe it or not, the world that you know is an outgrowth of ancient religious wisdom. Because it has lost contact with that ancient religious wisdom, it now struggles in the dark.
The few words of the great knowledge we mentioned earlier ("words make people") can raise you out of darkness and put you on the road to self mastery. That which is inferior cannot master that which, is by nature, superior. Intellectual power is superior to biological forces and emotional forces.

You cannot come into intellectual power until you first come into the realization that the birth and the cultivation of the man (mind) is done with the germ in words. If there is no life germ in the words that come into your body, those words act to kill the superior form of yourself. But if there are life germs in the words that come into your body, they act to bring life to that superior form in your physical body and to cultivate it and to move it on to its divine destiny.
We want you to reflect on the truth that "man" is a name that ancient wise people gave to the superior form in your makeup. They were not talking about your flesh, they were talking about your mental makeup, your psychic life and all the things connected with that force which rules in the flesh.

You, in your physical body, are much like a man driving in an automobile. In the automobile, you are protected and transported. It speaks for you if you blow the horn and it keeps you warm or cool. If you want pleasure, the automobile body transports you, answers your needs, and gives you pleasure. It returns messages to you from the outside physical world it is in contact with because of its physical likeness to that physical world.
Your physical body brings you into a relationship with the outside world of created matter and enables you to develop as a sense-being from the knowledge that comes to you through your body and enters into your mind. You grow as a sense-being and your faculties rise from a lower level to a higher level.

You are in your physical body to rule over it as the master or the god. When we say "god" in this sense, we are using it as the pagan translators of the Bible scripture used it to mean power, force, or mastery. In this sense, you are the god over your physical body and you are the god over the physical earth. You are the god in this physical creation.
"For though there be that are called gods, whether in heaven or in earth, (as there be gods many, and lords many)" Corinthians 1, 8:5.
The God of gods and the Lords of lords said that He made man to be the Crown of Creation, then man must rule in this physical world.

"And God said, Let us make man in our image, after our likeness: and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over the cattle, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth."-Genesis, 1:26.
The only devil you have to fear is your own ignorance of yourself as a total creation and as master in this world. You, yourself, are a type of the whole creation and everything in the creation is in your own makeup.

When you come into your natural rulership and apply the strength and the will power that you have to master your own self, you have nothing else to fear. A person that can master himself has nothing to fear outside of himself. God made nothing outside of you that is superior to what is inside of you. If you are ready to accept the challenge and the responsibility of self-mastery, you will find that challenge in the Nation of Islam in the West (the Body-Christ) and learn how to be a "man (mind) from the wisdom of the Divine Mind.


16.    Has not the time arrived 
For the Believers that 
Their hearts in all humility 
Should engage in the remembrance 
Of God and of the Truth 
Which has been revealed (to them), 
And that they should not 
Become like those to whom 
Was given Revelation aforetime, 
But long ages passed over them 
And their hearts grew hard ? 
For many among them 
Are rebellious transgressors.

17.  Know ye (all) that 
God giveth life
To the earth after its death ! 
Already have We shown 
The Signs plainly to you, 
That ye may learn wisdom.

18.  For those who give
In Charity, men and women,
And loan to God
A Beautiful Loan,
It shall be increased manifold
(To their credit),
And they shall have (besides)
A liberal reward.

19. And those who believe
In God and His apostles— 
They are the Sincere 
(Lovers of Truth), and 
The Witnesses (who testify), 
In the eyes of their Lord: 
They shall have their Reward 
And their Light. 
But those who reject God 
And deny Our Signs,— 
They are the Companions 
Of Hell-Fire.

Holy Quran Yusuf Ali Translation Sura LVII: Verses 16-19


WOMAN

We have some simple words that are common in our language, but some of you do not understand them. The proper understanding of these simple words could transform your life.
We have taught you that "man" means a mind divinely created to rule over physical creation. What do we mean in the ancient pagan Western Church language when we call a female a "woman?"
Over a long period of time, two meanings have grown to influence the thinking of the people. One meaning of "woman" is "woe unto man" or "woe unto mind" (divine mind). This meaning prevailed in the Church up until a few years ago. The Church treated women as beings that did not have a soul like the man had a soul.

The Church treated woman as a tempter to tempt the man to sin because of the picture of woman in the Genesis scripture of the Bible.
When you read the language of the Genesis with the childish understanding that has been given to you by Western Caucasian minds, you read a false description of woman. The symbol of woman in Genesis has several meanings. One representation is the corrupt, Satanic Church coming into existence. But because you have been given false meanings for the scriptural symbols, you think that it refers to the female sex.
The original meaning of the word "woman" is womb of mind. "Wo" stands for womb and "man" means mind.

The female, as a sex being, mates with the opposite sex to reproduce the human species or the family of people. The female was called "womb of mind" because every
mind is born out of the womb of a woman whether it's a male body or a female body.
Your mind has been so confused by the confusing teachings of Western society that we have to repeat the true meanings of these simple words over and over again to you.
Your mental vibrations strike us and we can feel your confusion so strongly that we can see you wrestling with these confusing teachings in your heart. You are wrestling with confusion, trying to hold on to it, and falling and stumbling while we talk to you. If you let go of that confusion that you picked up from this world of grafted, Caucasian mentality and follow me, you will be truly free.

The woman that is a woe unto mind is the Church of Western society. Western society is a society that is divided against itself sex -- wise. It is a society that breeds enmity (hatred) between male and female, between children and parents, between race and race, between nation and nation, and between man and nature.
Everything that you find in this world has the plague of grafted, Caucasian mentality preventing it from coming together and working naturally as it was planned by Almighty God, the Creator.

This artificial world tells us that a person is a woman at the age of 18 years and that a man is a man at the age of 21 years. This idea came from babies in scriptural knowledge up out of pagan ignorance and savagery in Europe.
They got the divine wisdom of the Bible in their hands and began to read it with their raw, unformed selves. They came up with all kinds of weird interpretations. A false description, a false nature, and a false form were given to the woman and that naturally separated the woman from the mind. They said that the woman was a separate and distinct creation from the man.

Although there is wisdom in the teaching that a woman is a woman at the age of 18, Western society uses it in a foolish way that overburdens the society and keeps us babies in our minds.
In grafted language it means that the esoteric, symbolic number for the physical creature is "6" and a "woman's" age is the maturity of "6." "Woman" cannot become divine no matter how old she becomes, she remains physical. The number "18" is 3 times 6. This means that "woman" is "6" as an emotional creature, "6" as a biological creature and "6" as a mental creature. (Remember, we are not referring to the female sex as woman.) Her mind never comes from the level of material things, so she is three "6's." The same number "666" is given to the beast or the devil in the Bible.

The secret esoteric number for the mind makeup or the divine makeup of society is "7." The "man" is said to become of age at 21 years (3 times 7). He is able to become divine in his biological makeup, in his emotional makeup, and in his intellectual makeup. (Remember, again, that we are not referring to the male - - sex when we say "man.")

Satan has tricked the world for centuries by naming women as materialist creatures that could never become divine with the label of "18." The whole society has been orientated to advance a devil's lie that was told to weaken all the natural forces of human society. That lie has brought the social life down to weakness and helplessness so that those forces would not be able to rise up against a diabolic, Satanic world order that was to be brought in after all the natural forces in the society had been destroyed.

Today, you are living in the end of lies, falsehood, deceit and darkness. The two edged sword of truth (the tongue) of Divine Mind is destroying and disintegrating the lie and the liar by exposing the lie in the light of truth. Man and woman, male and female, must submit to the knowledge of Almighty God today, or be destroyed with the fire of God.


94. O ye who believe! 
When ye go abroad 
In the cause of God, 
Investigate carefully, 
And say not to any one 
Who offers you a salutation: 
" Thou art none of a Believer!" 
Coveting the perishable goods 
Of this life : with God 
Are profits and spoils abundant. 
Even thus were ye yourselves 
Before, till God conferred 
On you His favours: therefore 
Carefully investigate. 
For God is well aware 
Of all that ye do.


95. Not equal  are those 
Believers who sit (at home) 
And receive no hurt, 
And those who strive 
And fight in the cause 
Of God with their goods 
And their persons. 
God hath granted 
A grade higher to those 
Who strive and fight 
With their goods and persons 
Than to those who sit (at home) 
Unto all (in Faith) 
Hath God promised good : 
But those who strive and fight 
Hath He distinguished 
Above those who sit (at home) 
By a special reward,—

96. Ranks specially bestowed
 By   Him, and Forgiveness 
And Mercy     For God is 
Oft forgiving, Most Merciful.

Holy Quran Yusuf Ali Translation Sura IV: Verses 94 -96



DELIVERANCE FROM THE WOMB

In the Nation of Islam, divine knowledge is of greatest importance. We, as Bilalian (Black) people, have always had hearts that were filled with compassion because our nature is a loving nature. But love without knowledge is not good enough to sustain us in this day and time.
I thank Almighty God, Allah, for His Presence with us today. His Presence enables us to love with real love, to know each other with real knowledge, and to do what we have to do with understanding.

We want to look at the first two attributes or names for Allah (God) mentioned in the Holy Qur'an because understanding them will aid us as we are resurrected from our previous womb into the womb of the total light of Divine.
The Book says that Allah is "Al—Rahman" (The Most Gracious) and "Al—Rahim" (The Most Merciful).
The work of "Al—Rahman" suggests many things to-us that are like the work of a father because the father likes to see his child with strong virtues. He likes to see it grow in an image that will be a compliment and an asset to him. It (Al—Rahman) is to bring about a Divine creation in the moral nature of the man: his righteousness, high principles of conduct, excellence of character, and the dignified mind that lifts the man above petty, unclean, and ignorant things.

The father will risk losing the closeness of the child for the sake of having it come into the natural form. It is just nature for a man to work to preserve his child because he knows he lives through that child. Beneficence signifies more of a masculine attribute because it implies giving freely, disregarding selfish motives.
Allah, "Al—Rahman," creates the moral and dignified man through the free giving of His Divine Word, the Holy Qur'an. He puts the Word of Qur'an in the man and it creates him in the image and likeness of Divine. When we say creation, in this sense, we are talking about creation that builds life in a person — a creation that feels the hardships, the miseries, and the agonies in a person! It is the human that reaches out mentally and morally to another being. It embraces that being, not just because it has a beautiful physical attraction but because it has a beautiful inward attraction. This is our real "life."

The Divine Word of Almighty Allah unlocks the mind, turns the light on in our being, and makes a spiritual sun to rise within us. It shines upon the dead matter in our mind, our soul, and our spirit. It causes us to take on form in the likeness of Divine Word which carries the germ of the Divine Mind.
The greatest manifestation or expression of the Beneficence of Allah is the creation of man (mind) in His Likeness. After creating us, He gives us a strong staff (Holy Qur'an) to walk with and to measure our steps.

The Book says that the word of "Al—Rahman" created the moral, upright being and made him to know the clear evidence. Whenever the Divine wants to test the understanding of the man or the man wants to measure the intensity of his own light, we are blessed with divine criteria, the clear evidence (Qur'an).
Al—Rahim" also signifies " grace, mercy, and compassion. While grace implies the giving of benefits, compassion implies having sympathy or coming to the aid of something that needs aid.
The root of the word "Rahim" means "wombs of the female." Life begins in the wombs of the female. In the creation of life, the Divine extends compassion and mercy so that Its beings won't suffer. This compassion and mercy is extended before the being even recognizes that there is a need for someone to aid it.

While the being is growing and being fashioned in the womb, it is protected and kept safe in the water of the womb. Even though harsh blows may come against the womb, the water safely absorbs them and maintains a comfortable resting place for the developing life.
"Al—Rahim" embodies such compassion that the suffering, pain, and terror that the life form undergoes in the cramped confinement of the womb is completely blotted from its memory and it steps boldly out into the new light without any memory of its birth pain. It comes out of the womb naturally prepared to respond to love and to endure suffering.

When the being comes out of the womb and begins to experience difficulty and hardships, he forgets that there was a time when he was created in the womb and that with all the physical work done on him, he remembers not one pain.
Whenever the burden gets too great, remember that Divine Power can wipe away all discomfort, resurrect you, and make you new again. The Holy Qur'an teaches us that Allah does not burden us with more than we have the capacity to bear. We burden ourselves by thinking on the pain we are experiencing. This adds more difficulty to the mind and puts the whole mind under the power of the pain. If you fall out, then fall out moving towards the objective.

Remember: every living thing born from the womb grows to stand over the womb as the preserver, protector, and nourisher of the womb.
In the two powerful Attributes "Al—Rahman" and "Al—Rahim," Allah reminds us that He is not a male—sex or a female—sex God. He is a Benefactor (a Giver of Graces) like the man, the father, and He is also the greatest Bestower of Mercy and Compassion, like the female, the mother.
Allah is not male or female, but He is the Source of Excellence of the male and the female and He is the Originator of everything. He is the Divine Mind that nourishes a thing from one state to another out of all crudeness towards a perfect state of being and He is with me as I guide you out of your first womb into the total divine light.

12. We have made the Night 
And the Day as two 
(Of Our) Signs: the Sign 
Of the Night have We obscured, 
While the Sign of the Day 
We have made to enlighten 
You ; that ye may seek 
Bounty from your Lord, 
And that ye may know 
The number and count 
Of the years: all things 
Have We explained in detail.

13. Every man's fate 
We have fastened 
On his own neck :
On the Day of Judgment 
We shall bring out 
For him a scroll, 
Which he will see 
Spread open.

14. (It will be said to him :)
" Read thine (own) record : 
Sufficient is thy soul 
This day to make out 
An account against thee."

Holy Quran Yusuf Ali Translation Sura XVII: Verses 12-14




MARRIAGE IN ISLAM

71. The Believers, men 
And women, are protectors, 
One of another: they enjoin 
What is just, and forbid 
What is evil : they observe 
Regular prayers, practise 
Regular charity, and obey 
God and His Apostle.
On them will God pour
His mercy : for God
Is Exalted in power, Wise.

72. God hath promised to Believers, 
Men and women, Gardens 
Under which rivers flow,.
To dwell therein,
And beautiful mansions
In Gardens of everlasting bliss.
But the greatest bliss
Is the Good Pleasure of God :
That is the supreme felicity.

Islam is a religion that is in accord with the natural life of the people. Simplicity is highlighted throughout the religion. When you understand the simple rules of nature, you see that Islam is not complicated.
In Western society, and in much of Eastern society, there is much effort to make things look good on the outside. A lot of time and patience is taken to decorate pretty wedding cakes, but we know that often there is only beautiful icing and not real cake under the icing.

In the Holy Quran humanity is told to reverence the Lord who created them from a single person.
The word that is translated to mean "person" in the English language is sometimes translated as "being." In the Arabic language, the word is clearly understood to refer to a person that is not completed, or an undeveloped being.
We say that God created male and female from a single being, and from the male and the female spread many countless children. Human society starts when a male and a female come together, accept to live with each other, and decide to become one family to multiply themselves.

According to the teachings of Islam, when two people come together to form a union, they come to each other as two halves, not as two wholes. The Holy Quran teaches us that the creation of the species began with a single being. That single being was made into two beings (male and female) to form the human family as we know it.
First the society (marriage union) is created and then it reproduces itself. If there is no reproduction there can be no continuation of life for the human family. This need for reproduction manifests itself in what we call desire, affection, love and in other words we use to describe the desire that brings male and female together in one union.

The male and the female as sex entities are not whole beings. They are halves and you cannot take a half and reproduce a whole. You have to have two halves because only a whole reproduces whole things.
Since we are halves in this function, we should regard each other as equals in this sense. We should not do anything without the other half having knowledge of it because whatever is important to the halves is important to the whole. Since one half cannot make the whole, we should not hide anything from our other half. If we do, we
are on our way to trouble.

The Holy Quran says that the man is the maintainer of the home. He is to provide the material needs for his household - that burden is on him. If his wife is able to share a part of that burden with him, that is to be considered as a gift from her. She is not obligated to give to him because he is the maintainer.
Because the man is the maintainer, nothing should be said or done in the marriage ceremony that would blind him to his natural role as provider over the household. :
When weddings are conducted in Western society, people bring gifts (articles for the house) or money to give the new couple "a start." This practice helps to blind the man to the role that is ahead of him of providing for his wife and his house. The people are not going to come with more gifts to keep the rent and the car note paid, so why start this practice?

In strict Muslim lands, people do not come to weddings with a lot of gifts. It is traditional that the new couple give their guests something, usually in the form of a wedding feast. If Muslims would go back to that tradition and perform marriages as they were performed naturally in the past, it would bring about a natural change for the better in our society. Also, it would make life more natural. A lot of things have happened to make marriage and home life unnatural and to make the wedding and the marriage artificial. It is our job as Muslims to make marriage and the home life natural and real again.

The Holy Quran says that we should revere God but 'that we should also reverence the womb of the female. Many men tend to look down upon the woman as a producer or as a child bearer. Even many so-called great religious orders have regarded this physiological function of the female as something to be despised or as something evil. Prophet Muhammad said that women should not be despised because God has placed an abundance of good in them.
The Holy Quran draws our attention to the burden that is placed upon the married couple and the good or bad consequences that result from such unions that affect the condition of the world.

If every couple from the early stages had been seriously interested preserving the best of human life for generations to come and if they had conducted their lives in a way to safeguard the future world today we would still have an "Eden" or a "garden of paradise," so to speak.
It is not mysterious or supernatural things that make life or that destroy the "garden of Eden" - heaven is in the hands of the men and the women who form the union
(marriage) and begin increasing the population of mankind with children.

If each of us would accept this burden and safeguard the society by doing what we know is the proper and best, we would be making our contribution to keeping the world in order. If we don't accept this burden, we should share the blame for the world being out of order.
Prophet Muhammad (may the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him) said that paradise lies at the feet of the mother. Whenever two people come together in marriage,
we expect that there will be children.

Society begins growing in the womb of the mother and, as little children, the new future clings to the apron strings or around the legs of the mother. In his saying, Prophet Muhammad tells us in plain words that the future heaven of the society depends upon how the mother raises the little children that are at her feet.
When we perform the marriage ceremony in Islam, we take the things into account that are most important and most vital to us as protectors of society.

When two Muslims come together to form the marriage union, they are usually represented by members of the two families such as the father or the older brother.
In the Islamic marriage, our attention is also called to the ties of relationship that bind us together in our individual families.
Both the male and the female come from a family, so each of them has blood ties with the family that is very close to them. The Holy Quran says that these family ties, which are very dear and very precious in one's life, are to respected and revered.

Although it might sound unusual to you, warnings or cautions against the problems that could lead to divorce are mentioned in the Muslim marriage ceremony. It is not the normal practice in Western society to mention anything during the wedding ceremony that might question the life of the union. In Islam, we want you to see the dangers ahead.
If you are about to set out upon a path or a road, the first thing you should want to do is be aware of the dangers that might lie ahead of you. If you don't take that kind of position before starting out, most likely you are going to run into trouble and you will not be prepared to handle it.

In the Islamic marriage ceremony, we also point out to the couple that the Holy Quran tells us of the importance of fearing Allah. It tells us to die not except in a state of Islam (as Muslims). We must live in accord with the principles and the thoughts of our religion. Our fear of Allah arises because of the love and the recognition of the importance we have for Allah. We recognize how important Allah is in our life and, because of that, we fear to disobey or to displease Him and we fear to leave His Presence.

As Muslims, the attention of the husband and the wife is called to Almighty God, Himself, to settle any argument that might develop. We know that there is something in nature that recognizes the Divine Righteousness, and Holy Being. We should remember this and always respect the Presence of God in our lives.
Since we are going to carry our complaints to Allah and let His Divine Image and Law settle them, we should always live as Muslims respecting Allah. If we respect Allah as man and wife, we have a saving force in our union (marriage). We should not disregard Allah, nor should we fail to remember that He is above our marriage.

We should consult Him before taking big or drastic steps that will bring about consequences that affect our children and our families, as well as us as individuals. Since we do not live our lives along as a married couple. Muslims are taught to recognize Allah as the saving force in our lives and our marriage.
The second saving power that is extended to us is the Muslim society. The couple can turn for health and strength to the relatives of the two families, to God, and to the society of Muslims.

If we as Muslims cannot settle arguments among ourselves, we carry the argument to a higher authority among ourselves. If Muslims have problems, they should feel welcome to bring their husband or their wife before the Nation of Islam and seek guidance before taking it upon themselves to make decisions.

Whenever the couple experiences a problem that threatens the marriage relationship (the bond between husband and wife), the two family representatives get together to discuss the matter. If we would practice this custom in America, we would have better marriages and a stronger home life.
Whatever happens to hurt the home life of the newly -wedded couple affects the lives of the children, if there are children, and it affects the lives of the blood relatives on both sides. We are always to respect the blood lives of the relatives on both sides of the family.

If our questions or complaints are not settled there, they ultimately go back to Allah, Who is the source of all of our knowledge and of all of the things we regard as valuable to us in our society.
The Holy Quran cautions the marriage couple to speak the right word (the word that is not deceitful nor the word that is not designed to hide the truth). Sometimes the truth can be spoken in such a way as to hide the truth.
The Holy Quran tells the new bride and groom in particular not to "beat around the bush," but to speak straight words. It deals with problems that arise in the life of the couple that are usually germs for destroying the marriage.

Notice that up to this point we have not mentioned the word "love." It is not necessary to talk about love because love is something that is to be expressed naturally. Instead of "love," we should talk about "obligation." In marriage we are committed to each other, we are obligated to each other and we are obligated to do certain things for each other. We should keep the obligations in mind and not a lot of love talk.
If the husband and the wife remain open with each other, they do not hide anything from each other. If you keep everything out in the open, you will have a force
working in your union to keep you united. The moment you start deceiving each other in any mild degree, you have begun untying the wedding knot. If deceit continues, the knot will get looser and looser and it will finally come apart.

The Holy Quran admonishes us to hold fast to the way of life that we are coming to. If we hold fast to that way, we have another safeguard working in our union to preserve the marriage.
If we forget that we are Muslims and start to live a life that is injurious to the Muslim life or that is against it, the Muslim laws that we respect will mean nothing in our lives. Soon, then, Allah will mean nothing in our life and our marriage will come to ruin.
Marriage in Islam is natural and beautiful. Its beauty lies in its natural relationship with Allah.
The Muslim marriage ceremony ends with this very important statement: "He that obeys God and His Apostle has already attained the highest achievement."

Of all the saving powers that we have in our marriage, the best one is obedience to Allah and obedience to the instructions that we receive from the Holy Prophet (may peace and blessings be upon him).
No matter what the partnership may be - whether it is one of marriage or of business - if both parties live respecting the perfect, most dignified, pure righteous, and sound image of Almighty God and follow the teachings of Islam, there will be nothing but success ahead for them. Whoever does this has already attained the highest achievement.
Each of the Holy Quran verses read in the closing portion of the Islamic marriage ceremony is addressed to the believers ("you who believe"). No matter how strong a truth is, if you do not trust it, it cannot do you any good.

102. O ye who believe ! 
Fear God as He should be 
Feared, and die not 
Except in a state
Of Islam.

103. And hold fast,
All together, by the Rope 
Which God (stretches out 
For you), and be not divided 
Among yourselves; 
And remember with gratitude 
God's favour on you ; 
For ye were enemies 
And He joined your hearts 
In love, so that by His Grace, 
Ye became brethren; 
And ye were on the brink 
Of the Pit of Fire, 
And He saved you from it. 
Thus doth God make 
His Signs clear to you : 
That ye may be guided.

104.  Let there arise out of you 
A band of people 
Inviting to all that is good, 
Enjoining what is right,
And forbidding what is wrong: 
They are the ones 
To attain felicity.

Holy Quran Yusuf Ali Translation Sura III: Verses 102 -104




LOVE TALK

I want you to know that no Bilalians (Black people) organized the religion of Christianity. Christians rule in Europe and America, the lands of slavery and colonialism. The slave trader John Hawkins came out of Europe and went into Africa to bring slaves to America.
In these lands of Christian power you will find more pornographic materials, more immoral freaks, more rape, more adultery, more lying, more stealing, more hatred of
Bilalians and more hatred between Bilalians than in other lands on earth.

We do not have to go into the details of Bible language to show you the weakness of Church language and Church life in the countries where the Church thrives and rules.
The very life that we find in Christian countries tells us that there is an absence of divine truth there. The most corrupt lands on earth are Christian lands. When you leave the corruption of these lands, you find less vice, less wickedness, and less corruption. You find more love for God and the people praying more. You find families getting along better and children more loved and better cared for. But in the land where Christians rule and the Church dominates, you find hell-the hatred, the mistreatment, and the abuse of innocent people. These are facts.

The Christian world has been living under nothing but paganism. The old language of the New Testament that they live by has been twisted to propagate paganism under the guise of Jesus Christ or under the disguise of true religion. While the foreparents of Bilalians were flourishing in great civilizations in Africa and Asia, most of Europe had no civilization. Europeans had gone so far back into darkness until they were nothing but savages with clothes on.
Christians who think they know something about their so-called religion should read the history of the European people who gave the world Christianity. It will make them understand why this world is so messed up.

Today, we must tell you the truth whether it hurts you or not. We were not brought to life to stand around, cry the blues and sing you to sleep. We are here to wake you up.
One of the tools used by the Church to keep you asleep is a warped teaching of "love." If you look around you, you can see many people who have been wasted by a misunderstanding of love. They think that love means to give your sympathy out to everything and everybody. They do not see anybody as bad or wrong: they see everybody as good and right. That is not love, that is insanity.
We have the history of 2,000 years of Christian influence and power in the earth to prove to us that "love talk" will not do anything for the world if we do not have some knowledge in that "love talk". Love without knowledge is nothing.

Real love is the strength to make the person you love unhappy if you know it means that it is for the good or the betterment of the person. The kind of love that does anything to please the person is the weakest so-called love that you can find. You cannot love me if you fear to tell me what is wrong with me. You cannot love me if you want to keep a happy relationship with me while seeing me go down.

Rather than give a person up as a feeding source to whatever you depend on him for, many of you will let him go to hell and say you love him all the way. That is the way the Church is. Most Church preachers have been fed and conditioned to care just about membership, donations, and support for the Church. They "love" you too much to tell you to do right. They think that they might hurt your feelings.
You know that the Muslims are going to tell you to give up eating pork, drinking whiskey, and committing acts of fornication and adultery. But the Church leadership is not going to use these things because they are not ready to break with you. They are going to "love" you all the way to hell, and most of you are already there.

The Nation of Islam in the West (the Body—Christ) loves you so much that we are going to tell you the truth. Our conscience will be clear because we know we have put you on the right track.
Nobody is going to force you to walk in the way of the Nation of Islam. We do not expect everybody to accept and to love what we teach. If that would happen, all the scriptures would be proven to be lies. The scripture says that some will hear the truth and then love it and accept it. Others will hear the truth and then hate it and reject it.

We love you, Brothers and Sisters, but we love you to accept the truth, of Almighty God and to walk in the way of righteousness. Our love for you is the true love and the best love because it is from the Original Mind that evolved the creation of universes from the dark, empty space of nothingness.

9. If two parties among 
The Believers fall into 
A quarrel, make ye peace 
Between them : but if 
One of them transgresses 
Beyond bounds against the other, 
Then fight ye (all) against 
The one that transgresses 
Until it complies with 
The command of God ; 
But if it complies, then 
Make peace between them 
With justice, and be fair: 
For God loves those 
Who are fair (and just).

10.  The Believers are but 
A single Brotherhood: 
So make peace and 
Reconciliation between your 
Two (contending) brothers;
And fear God, that ye
May receive Mercy.

11. O ye who believe! 
Let not some men 
Among you laugh at others : 
It may be that
The (latter) are better 
Than the (former): 
Nor let some women 
Laugh at others: 
It may be that 
The (latter) are better 
Than the (former): 
Nor defame nor be 
Sarcastic to each other, 
Nor call each other 
By (offensive) nicknames : 
Ill-seeming is a name 
Connoting wickedness, 
(To be used of one) 
After he has believed : 
And those who 
Do not desist are 
(Indeed) doing wrong.

12. O ye who believe ! 
Avoid suspicion as much 
(As possible): for suspicion 
In some cases is a sin: 
And spy not on each other, 
Nor speak ill of each other 
Behind their backs. Would any 
Of you like to eat 
The flesh of his dead 
Brother ?  Nay, ye would 
Abhor it ... But fear God : 
For God is Oft-Returning, 
Most Merciful.



ABORTION

I am sure that you would not like to be guilty of the heinous crime of abortion. To abort a child's life that is growing in the womb of the mother is a deplorable and terrible act. Nobody in their right mind could like such a thought.
You yourself, were born a physical person as a newborn baby with no mark against you. You were as innocent as a blank page of paper. Then you grew up and became a thinking person.
Suppose someone had murdered you in your infancy. You would never have become a person as you are now.

In the Holy Quran there are some instructions that will enable us to know that there are some restrictions or limitations upon the woman and the man in regards to abortion. Many men and women agree to abort life because they fear there is not enough material provisions in the family or in the community to support the new human life. The Holy Quran, 1400 years ago, recognized this problem and it instructed the people not to kill children for fear of want, for the same God that provided for the parents would provide for the children. It is like a rich man who is properly providing for his wife, but she has to decide whether she should have more children or not.

If the man is rich, he obviously has enough wealth to take care of the physical needs of the wife and all of the children that she can bear him. But she takes it upon herself, without consulting him, to say that there will be no more children. This woman, having no physical problems or health problems, decides against having another child because she determines on her own that the budget is unable to provide the necessary funds for its care. From where did the budget come? It came from the rich husband. So until he says that there is a limit of funds, the woman should avoid taking it upon herself to say that they have enough children and that there will be no more. The Holy Quran says that the Creator of the Heavens and the Earth has an abundance. Until He says that things have run out, we Should desist from taking it upon ourselves to say that there will be no children because the budget is getting too tight.

History shows that men and women who disregard the fear of poverty and who go on and have as many children as they desire always have something for themselves and their children. It is those who worry about what is going to happen tomorrow or next week that always are in some kind of trouble.

Abortion  to  save  or  enrich the family materially is outlawed in Islam. Other justifications for abortion  should be dealt with separately as individual cases. You might ask if there is any justification for abortion. Certainly there is. The   Holy   Quran   does not say whether abortion is permissible of not. It only says that you cannot abort to
save the budget. However, suppose that we know for sure that if a sister has another child, she will lose her life. Should we take it upon ourselves to decide whether the baby or the mother should live? We are not Almighty God. It is up to that mother to decide for herself whether she wants to sacrifice her life so that the baby will come or whether she wants to keep her life and not have the unborn baby.

The history of the Arabs tells us that when the message of Islam came to Arabia, the men placed so much value upon males that they felt ashamed and they felt that they were less than men if they had many daughters and few sons. They even killed some of their daughters.

If you could read the Holy Quran in the Arabic language, you would really get the full force of the beauty in this saying: "For what sin was she killed? No crime has she committed." The female children were as innocent as the males, but just because of the selfish ignorance of the father, they were killed so that he could boast of having many sons. On this same thought, the Holy Quran says, "Do not kill your children for fear of want." In this statement the scripture is hitting at the first big sin of the Arabs in having many sons and few daughters.

To have many sons means to have many helpers to do the hard work and many fighters to fight the enemies. In disrespecting his mother and his wife, the man had even lost the respect for the values of his sons. He was their father and they should have been children to him, but he had the thought like a man raising horses, cows, donkeys and fighting dogs. This is the wrath of truth that falls upon a society when it gets out of contact with reality. Allah, the Creator, is the only concept that can keep people in tough
with reality. Anything else eventually will lead you to leave reality.

Do not be guilty of "self abortion." Almighty God never called "man" something short of divine development. When God says that He is going to make a man, He means that He is going to bring the human being through the stages of development from childhood, up to a person of knowledge; and lastly up to a person of divine awareness.

If you refuse to accept the religious experience and the scriptural guidance that will develop your mind to a higher  elevation and that will lift your mind out of the womb again, you are guilty of self abortion.

Self abortion is the aborting of your own self before you are born out of the wombs of human development.
On the question of abortion, there are some verses in the Holy Quran that shine light to enable us to see what kinds of abortion are allowed, if any. First, we will refer to Chapter 81, entitled "The Folding Up."


8. When the female (infant), 
Buried alive, is questioned-

9.  For what crime 
She was killed;

Holy Quran Yusut Ali Translation Sura LXXXI   Verse 8 -9


In this Chapter, a deplorable act of the Quraish tribe before they embraced Islam is brought to our eyes. This horrible act was the act of burying the female child alive. It was an act that was done in secret or, as Maulana Yusuf Ali says in his footnote, done in collusion. In the history of the pagan Arabs, or the pre — Islam day Arabs. we learn that the Arabs, as many other primitive societies, were proud of male children in their family and the presence of female children. They disliked having daughters and they prided themselves in being the father of many sons. In this chapter. The Holy Quran speaks to this ignorant practice and it tells us of the day of judgment and of the female child that was buried alive. This "burying alive" brings to our mind something a little bit deeper than just the act of burying a physical body. Burying alive, as it is used here also brings to mind the retarding of the females by the males who felt that females were a different creation and that they should not be allowed to go to school or to be taught wisdom with men. 

There are some Muslims today who feel that women should not be allowed to go to the mosque, but that they should stay at home. They say that women are not to be allowed to socialize or to attend public-meetings, even if it be for their moral and spiritual development.
Many of the people who hold these ideas might be innocent, but we are sure that many of them are guilty of using this as an excuse to keep their women ignorant and subservient. On the subject of abortion, it is very difficult to say whether this verse should be admitted in forming judgment on abortion, because it could very well be that this verse is speaking to the social killing and the spiritual killing of the woman more so than to the physical killing of the female child. 

In this Chapter the question is put to us. "For what sin was she killed?" The Arabs killed the female child to save themselves from experiencing the embarrassment of shame in the society. We may reason ' from this knowledge that, if anyone aborts a human life to escape shame in the society, they may be acting against the teachings of the Holy Quran. If a young girl gets pregnant and fears that her parents will punish her of that the society will look down on her because of her having a child out of wedlock, and this fear of shame forces her to seek a doctor to abort the human life before aborting the life in her womb she should remember that the Holy Quran teaches against the taking of life to save one's self from shame or embarrassment.

The second point to consider is the practice of abortion out of fear of poverty, or the killing of children out of fear of poverty. The Holy Quran says that you should not kill your children out of fear of want, and that Allah provides for you and for them. So in light of this teaching of the Holy Quran on the taking of a child's life, we may conclude that it is sinful for any parent or any believer to take the life of a child out of fear of want or out of fear of poverty. We may reason still further that the family or the parent who feels that they cannot afford more children are not respecting the teachings that are given on this subject in the Holy Quran. If we are not allowed to kill our children out of fear of want, then we are not allowed to control the size of our family so that our gain or our benefit will increase so that there will be enough material goods for all the  members to live a comfortable life. If we are concerned about material comfort for each member of the family we are manifesting the fear of poverty and want - - so such abortion would be considered against the right conduct of a believer in Islam and the Holy Quran.

The third point is that the Holy Quran teaches us to save our life, to preserve our life, and to feel responsible for our own individual life. It also teaches that it is a sin for us to abuse ourselves or to kill ourselves, There are cases wherein the mother, herself, is threatened by the growth of a human life in her womb. Many women have been advised to submit to abortion to save their own life. Many have been told that to carry and deliver the baby would most likely mean the death of the mother and the baby. When this is the case, as we have said in earlier teachings on the subject of abortion, the individual mother whose life is at stake must make the decision for herself. Her husband should give her the right to make the final decision on the question of risking her own life.

Our fourth point on the subject of abortion, as the subject might be influenced by the teachings of the Holy Quran, is that many Muslims feel that under no circumstances should anyone take it upon themselves to abort a life. Many Muslims feel that you should not use any contraceptives or do anything to prevent the sperm from developing into a human life. They feel strongly that to do this would be committing a sin. Those who have these feelings should not be forced to accept a different belief or judgment. If they are convinced that their belief is right and that it is dictated to them by the teachings of the Quran or Islam, they should not be persuaded to give up their belief or position. However, for those who do feel that there are exceptions, we would like to offer some questions that might help us to reason better and to draw better conclusions. 

Actually, there is no way to prevent the germs of life from dying or from falling short of their development. In our sleep, and at other times, there are involuntary releases of semen, that is, sperm (human life germs). Also, the female during her menses discharges or releases eggs in her menses, or in the blood. Those eggs, if fertilized by sperm, will feed the sperm and bring about, with the sperm, the development of a human life. The sperm that is lost, if it had been carried to its place in the female womb, would have developed into a human life. We have no control over that. If any sister should be faced with the problem of having children at the risk of losing her own life, she should give this a lot of thought. Before taking a chance on having life begin and grow over months into the latter months of its development in her womb before she starts to worry and go to the doctor to ask if she should have the baby, she should make the decision before she decides to giver herself to her husband and allow the germ of life (the sperm) to be received into her womb and the growth process started. 

She should make the decision before she decides to give herself to her husband and allow the germ of life (the sperm) to be received into her womb and the growth process started. She should decide beforehand whether or not she is going to risk her life and also the life that would form in her womb. If she decides that she is not certain whether she is ready to risk a life to have a baby, she should use the safest contraceptive that is available. Some of them are very safe. This would be better than waiting until it is too late, and then aborting a well — formed life in her womb. It would seem to me to be more reasonable, more honorable, and more decent to use contraceptives that are safe rather than go on with an uncertain mind and allow life to begin forming in the womb. You should not wait until you are forced to make a decision and then abort the life in your womb or risk your own life.

I personally approve those contraceptives that have low risk and are proven to be very safe. In concluding, I ask you to weigh these comments with the other teachings that you have heard on abortion. When you make your decision, be certain that it is your own decision and keep Allah's guidance first. Pray to Him and then do what your conscience guides you to do. May Allah bless us and save us all from mistakes and wrongdoings.


Mu-minun, or The Believers.
In the name of God, Most Gracious, Most Merciful.

1. The Believers must 
(Eventually) win through,—

2.  Those who humble themselves
In their prayers ;

3.  Who avoid vain talk ;

4. Who are active in deeds
Of charity;

5. Who abstain from sex,

6. Except with those joined
To them in the marriage bond,
Or (the captives) whom
Their right hands posses, -
For (in their case) they are 
Free from blame,

7. But those whose desires exceed 
Those limits are transgressors ;—

8. Those who faithfully observe 
Their trusts and their covenants ;

9. And who (strictly) guard
Their prayers; -

10. These will be the heirs,

11. Who will inherit Paradise : 
They will dwell therein
(Forever)

Holy Quran Yusuf Ali Translation Sura XXIII: Verses 1 - 11




THE RESPONSIBILITY OF MOTHERHOOD

I  have taught you  that "woman"  means "womb of man," which is "womb of mind."
Sisters, I am here to do what "women's liberation" can never do for you. The people who are leading that movement may have the natural sense of the natural makeup to lead you, but they will never get out of the dark of this world's false concepts of "woman." God has blessed us to come out of all darkness into the divine light of truth.
Every woman is designed by nature to be the womb of mind. Whether your self is male or female, you came from the physical womb of a female. This is true whether you are male or female as a mind or as a psychic creation.

The ancient masters had great wisdom and they went about solving the problems of the society in the right way. They first learned how to identify the nature and the workings that went on in the individual. That gave them the knowledge of how the society operated and what to do to correct the problems when something went wrong.
The child is first flesh in the mother. It comes out as a fresh, new mind (fresh, wet clay) and grows under the guidance of the mother. The worst thing that could ever happen to hurt the growth of the child is for the father to take over the rearing of the child from its mother.

No father should take over the rearing of his children from the mother, especially when they are under the age of 12 years. Their nature during this period is to be fed by mother and not by father. If you interfere with this natural growth, you will damage the healthy development of the child.
In designing this creation, the Almighty Creator gave mind first to the female so that she could do her job and then release it to the world of the males.
Sister, if you try to do your job in such a way that it is impossible for the male to possess your product, as its teacher you are doing the worst possible thing that you could do. You are giving destruction into the hands of society.

The man cannot do what you have undone. He cannot do what you have failed to do. If you give him something that you have worked on and made a destructive tool against manhood, there is nothing for the man's world to do but burst its head, throw it in jail, or shoot it down in the street.
Sisters, you are killing your own children because you do not know the proper way to raise them. You do not know your God—given role because you do not know the design of the machinery we call "human beings." Since you do not know the makeup of that machinery, you destroy it when you try to operate it.

Remember, Sisters, that every female is a man (mind) just as every male is a mind. "Woman" is said to also mean "woe onto mind," or "curse on mind." No female is a "woman" by nature or by divine design, but many of you have become "women" because of the grafted mentality that you have lived under.
You have become a curse to mind. Your young men cannot develop in your home like they should because you are a curse on their minds.

It is time for you to wake up. Come out of that false artificial world that forms you as an artificial being. You are living in a world of lies and false mentality.
Let the Nation of Islam in the West (Body-Christ) teach you how to perform properly your rightful role of woman (womb of mind) for the glory and honor of Almighty God.

69. O ye who believe ' 
Be ye not like those
Who vexed and insulted Moses,
But God cleared him
Of the (calumnies) they
Had uttered : and he
Was honourable in God's sight.

70. O ye who believe !
Fear God, and (always) say 
A word directed to the Right:

71. That He may make
Your conduct whole and sound 
And forgive you your sins : 
He that obeys God 
And His Apostle, has already 
Attained the highest
Achievement.

Holy Quran Yusuf Ali Translation Sura XXXIII: Verses 69-71



THE IMPORTANCE OF CLEANLINESS TO THE MUSLIM WOMAN

A sister may start  Ramadan  and  her  fast  might  be interrupted twice by the menses. No matter how often her fast is interrupted, every time she is aware that she is having the menses, she should discontinue the fast. Allah in His wisdom knows more than  we know    The sister is bothered when she is having the menses. The burden of fasting and keeping up her prayers while in that condition should not be placed upon her.

During her menses, a sister is not physically clean enough to enjoy her prayer and her fasting. But more important than that is the role of the woman. The woman has little children to look after. These children require the cleanest environment that she can give them. Cleanliness very important to children, especially when they are small. The woman, with the extra burden on her of i leaning herself physically, has to be more conscious of cleaning physically than the man. She also has to clean herself more often than the man. This makes her self-conscious. There are some women who do not feel that they are unclean during the menses, but a woman is not at ease when she is sick and her body is throwing off its impurities. Your dignified nature should tell you that the sister is unhealthy during her menses.

The woman is closer to the children than the man. So Almighty Allah has seen fit to put her under more burden of cleaning herself. He has seen fit to burden her with cleaning work to do, and in doing this, she becomes more conscious of cleaning. It is natural for her to clean the baby because she has been cleaning herself every month. The cleaning of herself every month gives her practice and it conditions her to clean the baby when it is unclean. If we do not get the right understanding of the woman's physical nature and the role that God has assigned to her, her mind becomes unclean. She would leave the baby unclean and herself unclean.

Be thankful to Allah that He has designed His humanity as He has designed it. He knows what is best for us. He knows what is best for the woman and He knows what is best for the man. Allah could have made the woman free of the menses. He did not have to make her have the menses just to have the ability to bear life. He could have made some other way for life to come. Does every creature have to come under this cleaning process for life to come? No, there are many other creatures that do not come to life in this way, but Allah has designed the best for His best creature.

If Allah desires for the woman to stop her fast during the menses, it should be stopped. This makes her stronger, not weaker. Do you see how easy it is to overlook wisdom? The sister should be proud because her menses is making her a stronger Muslim and a stronger mother.


16. Has not the time arrived 
For the Believers that 
Their hearts in all humility 
Should engage in the remembrance 
Of God and of the Truth 
Which has been revealed (to them), 
And that they should not 
Become like those to whom 
Was given Revelation aforetime, 
But long ages passed over them 
And their hearts grew hard ? 
For many among them 
Are rebellious transgressors.

17. Know ye (all) that 
God giveth life To the earth after its death ! 
Already have We shown 
The Signs plainly to you, 
That ye may learn wisdom.

18. For those who give
In Charity, men and women,
And loan to God''
A Beautiful Loan,
It shall be increased manifold
(To their credit),
And they shall have (besides)
A liberal reward.

19. And those who believe 
In God and His apostles — 
They are the Sincere 
(Lovers of Truth), and 
The Witnesses (who testify), 
In the eyes of their Lord : 
They shall have their Reward 
And their Light. 
But those who reject God 
And deny Our Signs, — 
They are the Companions 
Of Hell-Fire.

Holy Quran Yusuf ali Translation Sura LVII: Verses 16-19


CLARA MUHAMMAD ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY SCHOOL

We are very excited about the future of the Clara Muhammad Elementary and Secondary School. We are on a great path and we believe that the future is going to be a great day for us. As a growing people, we have not yet reached our limits. We are just now coming into the dimensions of our growth.
The Nation of Islam is a concept and a reality. The religion of Islam is our way of life, our ideology, and our social concept. Teachers in the Nation of Islam see that the Nation of Islam is the greatest and most promising social concept that people of color have ever had anywhere on the face of the earth.

If educators have a contribution to make to their people or to the world, there is no better place or concept to contribute to than the Nation of Islam in America.
There are people who are driven because they have to survive and there are people who are driven because they have to help others survive. In the Nation of Islam, we are driven by the desire to help others survive. We are a people for an opportunity to make a human contribution to the world.

I, myself, am a product of the Clara Muhammad Elementary and Secondary School. We will very soon have great orators and other great men and women of book knowledge to present to the world as products of the Nation of Islam. Even today, the Clara Muhammad Elementary and Secondary School is producing a student that is a special kind of product.
Because the Clara Muhammad Elementary and Secondary School exists within a social concept that we call the Nation of Islam, it has a kind of independent life growing in America. That kind of independent life is truly unique to be found in America. It is a life that has its own thinking its own ideas of freedom, and its own motivating power.
The life of the Nation of Islam is not a life motivated by the powers and values that normally motivate people outside the Nation of Islam. We have our own source of power that is generating the energy that we need to move and to progress. Because of this special life, we are unique people.

The Nation of Islam has a very precious contribution to make to the world. The staff of the Clara Muhammad Elementary and Secondary School does not think in terms of just working for our own students, but they think of  working to produce a product that will be a contribution to America and to the world.
When you have a great idea, you also want to have the necessary means to realize or to materialize that idea. We are greatly blessed with a great idea, a great way of life, a great program, and a great school.

Also, we are rich. It is not that we have a great deal of money in the bank, but we know that there are many people around the world who respect our work and who have offered much to us to further our work.
Many dignitaries in business and in government are now coming to us and they are anxious to offer their hand to help us with their knowledge and their resources.
In the Clara Muhammad Elementary and Secondary School, our teachers have the opportunity to work without any excuses. In many public and parochial school systems, there are real excuses.
The teacher knows what should be taught, but she has restrictions on her. She has people in positions of authority above her who are not sympathetic, who do not see what she sees.

In other school systems, there are administrators who are more concerned about politics and dollars than they are about making or creating human beings. In the Clara
Muhammad Elementary and Secondary School we do not have that problem. It has top priority with me - whatever we have to give is given to the school whenever they ask for it.
We respond immediately to the Clara Muhammad Elementary and Secondary School because we know that there is nothing that you can give to, that is more worthy of your support than to give to the development of a human being's mind. That is what we are here for.

We can add to the mind and not burden anybody. The bigger the mind grows, the lighter it gets. The smaller it is, the heavier the burden is. So we contribute to that thing which grows and grows and gets to be a lighter and lighter burden for us.
The Nation of Islam believes in order and a disciplined society. We offer order and discipline to men and women who feel a need to be a part of an ordered and a disciplined society, We have a true discipline of the society.

Everybody knows that there is a moon and a sun in the sky which are a part of our solar system. The earth belongs to an ordered society or family of planets.
How many people, however, know about the comets and the meteors that drift freely through space? The great men and women of the world are men and women who appreciate an orderly society.
We have been trained in this world to resist and to hate discipline and order. We have been trained to be that by people at the very top of society who rule themselves t the very things that they would like to turn us against They know that an orderly society and a disciplined life is the   real salvation for the society .

Without order and discipline you are just a straying body that has no real strength. You are subject to be driven in any direction by any power or influence that may come into your environment.
Life is born out of order and it grows in order. As long as it remains orderly, it continues to exist. When life breaks away from the order that it was born in and established under, destruction comes.
Teachers  in  the Clara Muhammad   Elemental Secondary School know that Islam is the most valuable religion on the face of the earth. As a result, they do not have the problems "hangups" that teachers have in other schools.

Some students in public schools  are discriminated against because they are Bilalian, Chicano, or white, or poor, or aggressive, or proud, or shy, or for any number of reasons. Those kind of "hangups" are not tolerated in the Clara Muhammad Elementary and Secondary School.

Islam is a universal religion. It is a religion that is rich and potent socially, economically, scientifically, and in every other way. Our religious society is a society that does not cripple you or tie your hands - there is a place for everyone who desires a righteous life.
The Nation of Islam in its very baby form was able to do things with Bilalian people that the American society with all of its institutions and wealth, was unable to do.

Its teachings offer an opportunity for the great accumulation or growth of intelligence in our people to take life and to come to the light of truth, and grow and grow. There is an opportunity here for people who are attracted to knowledge to expand their minds.
The Nation of Islam offers an orderly field for a person's mind to focus on. You cannot do anything until you get some focus on an orderly field.
When you wake up in the morning, you just cannot get started until you get some focus on some kind of order in your house or in yourself. Once you get some focus on order, you can begin moving out with a goal and a purpose. That is what the Nation of Islam offers.

The Clara Muhammad Elementary and Secondary School is now getting some of the best minds of Bilalian America on its staff. We do not want people who have qualifications and are waiting for somebody to discover them. We want people who are bursting to do something with the qualifications that they have.
We realize that we are very fortunate people and that we are starting off this "new day" with a future that is brighter than the future that was ahead of the pioneers that came to America to take over this neglected land.

Today we have a vast neglected America and a vast neglected world ahead of us and we, the Nation of Islam and the Clara Muhammad Elementary and Secondary School, are the pioneers.
Let us work hard.


22.  God is He, than Whom 
There is no other god ; 
Who knows (all things) 
Both secret and open ; 
He, Most Gracious, Most Merciful.

23. God is He, than Whom 
There is no other god ;-
The Sovereign, the Holy One, 
The Source of Peace
(and Perfection) 
he Guardian of Faith, 
The Preserver of Safety, 
The Exalted in Might, 
The Irresistible, the Supreme :

Glory to God ! 
(High is He) 
Above the partners 
They attribute to Him.

24. He is God, the Creator, 
The Evolver, 
The Bestower of Forms 
(Or Colours). 
To Him belong 
The Most Beautiful Names 
Whatever is in 
The heavens and on earth, 
Doth declare 
His Praises and Glory: 
And He is the Exalted 
In Might, the Wise.


CHALLENGE TO THE BILALIAN COMMUNITY

A question heard very frequently in Bilalian (Black) communities is the question: "How can we save ourselves?" The only way to save ourselves, brothers and sisters, is by turning back to Almighty God, Allah, and by admitting that we are not "know—it—all" creatures. As babies, we come here more helpless than the horse that is born from its mother. We are weak and we have to struggle and depend upon something else to take care of us for months and for years. If we do not get help, we will surely sink. A baby is born from its mother and its father and it cannot do anything but lie around and cry for its mother or someone else to put a bottle in its mouth or to change its diaper. For about two years, the baby depends completely upon someone else to bring its water, milk, and food. Someone else must remove the filth from him. Then, he grows up as a child and he still has to depend upon someone else to protect him for a number of years. He has to be taught many things by other people. But when he gets grown, he begins to walk around like he came here all by himself. Just a few short seasons ago, if someone had walked away from him, he would have died. But, now, all of a sudden, he is a "know—it—all."

He did not know anything when he came into this life— his mind was completely blank. He had to be given a name and then taught his name. He had to be given time on earth and then taught how to calculate that time. All of a sudden, he does not want anybody to tell him anything. He wants to be his own boss. Brothers and sisters, that kind of
attitude is what destroys us and robs us of the opportunity to grow as human beings. This is why so many men and women come up in the world, and when their parents finish raising them, that is the end of their growth. They do not grow anymore as a mental, a moral, or a spiritual being. In fact, some of them start going backwards. When some people get 18 or 20 years old, they go out on their own and think that they know it all. Nobody can tell them anything and they do not grow anymore. If you see them five or ten years later, you will see that they have not learned a thing.

When a man grows up and gets the desire for a woman, he marries the woman and has children. If he does not grow up himself, as his community grows, he is going to be a failure. If he grows as a community to become two (man and wife) but his mind—growth stops back when he was a single teenager, he is going to be a failure as a man and wife community. The community of two is going to fail because it is still operating as though it is a community of one. When the man and the woman have children, if they fail to grow into another dimension and if they continue to operate like boyfriend and girlfriend, they are going to fail as a family. These are things that are dictated in nature. Man and woman are brought together because there is a need to build up the human society. They are brought together first by a physical attraction, so that the physical bond will obligate them and make them move up a little higher.

When a man falls in love with a woman and begins to need her physical company, he must also grow to accept the extra burden that comes along with her. He then has to go out and struggle to guarantee the survival of himself and the woman he has taken as his wife. In doing this, he is going to become more productive because he now has a greater motivation. Being motivated by nothing but his own appetite, he can only do so much because he only has the desire to do so much. Once he has a wife that he loves .is much as he loves himself, he has a stronger motivating power. This motivating power will increase the worth of the man and it will make him a greater producer. 

When he gets children from the union with his wife, he develops even more motivation. He then has a wife and children that he loves as much as he loves himself. These things are pushing him because he loves them and because he wants to feed them as he wants to feed himself. He is then forced to be even a greater producer of wealth and of the things that society  must  have.  The union  of man  and  woman  as husband and wife is moving the man up to be a greater provider. The more the burden of production is on him, the greater the demand becomes for his mind to grow. God forces the man to grow mentally, morally, and spiritually by tying him physically to other flesh that he loves as he loves his own flesh. If a man had nothing to work for but himself, he would stay a small thing in the earth.

When families grow into tribes, the man who is the head or the leader of the tribe should love the members of the tribe the same way that he loves his own children because he is the "father" of the tribe. If he does that, he will have the motivating power coming to him from hundreds of people instead of just a few people in his immediate family. If the desire is equal for them as it is for himself, he will have  the energy  to go out  and  work  for  hundreds of members just as hard as he worked for one member. This demand of responsibility will force his mind to expand to meet the demand. So, this man is going to become wiser, more  productive,   and  more skilled.   He can grow and become the father of many tribes, or maybe he can become like Abraham who was given the title of "father of many nations". If he grows up to that level, then the man is rewarded greatly because he now has many thousands of people in the community motivating him, moving him, and pushing him to serve them. But, he cannot grow to his great height unless he loves them. If he loves them as he loves himself, he will be able to serve nations just like he was able to serve his own family.

The Bilalians of the West, as a people, have lost contact \\ith the true nature of society.  We do not know how society grows and we do not know what it means to be a family anymore. We do not know how much the individual person is rewarded by accepting a wife, by accepting to have children, and by accepting to serve a community of hundreds or thousands of people. We have lost contact with that relationship and we have become so selfish that we cannot see anybody but ourselves and we cannot work for anybody but ourselves. With that kind of small mind, we cannot produce enough to last any longer than we ourselves last. When we die, our work dies and the new generation inherits nothing from us. This is the pitiful state of a whole world of Bilalians numbering over 30 million in North America alone. 

We are in a state where we have to gamble with time: we hope that next year we will have a job and we hope that our children will have a future. We have not yet gotten in the position to tell our children to inherit our kingdom, to inherit our wealth, or to prepare themselves to take over our business. It is a shame that as a family we do not have any businesses. What do we have that we can say that the next generation of our children will inherit? We do not know what they are going to inherit and we cannot guarantee them anything because we have become too selfish to work as a family anymore.

We do not live as a family, nor do we think as a family anymore. We think as individuals. Each one of us is struggling to get a house or struggling to get a car, but how many of us are struggling to put money in banks, struggling to get some real estate or some capital, or struggling to build some institutions? When we die, we should want a guarantee that the next generation will not have to die in the pitiful condition that we die in, but that they can live much better. We have not done this work yet, but that is what we have to do as a community. In order to get respect in the world, we are going to have to work for the future of our own people. That is what the Lost—Found Nation of Islam is all about. It is established to train us again to think like a community, to feel that we are responsible for each other, and to work for our children like we work for ourselves, because they are ourselves. 

You can live forever if you guarantee your children a future, but if you do not guarantee them a future, you will be gone. We should struggle hard, keep Allah before us, and come back into the natural order (the natural mind) of people. We have to get out of the crazy mind that this world of grafted, unnatural mentality has given to us. It gives us the mind that makes us think that we do not need each other and that every man and every woman is an individual. That is the kind of ignorant thinking that they feed the masses of the people, but they teach their own class of people that they are not individuals, but they should live together and die together.

They teach you that every man is an individual, that you are independent of other people, that you have your own rights, and that you do not need a leader. They do not want you to have a leader, brothers and sisters. They know that if you have a leader, you will step up out of the disconcerted class into their organized class. They know that once you get a leader, you will be competition for them. As long as you are leaderless, each one is going for himself. You are not a physical army, a moral army, a business army or an educational army. You are completely disunited. You have no educational power, no financial power, nor any political power. In order to have political power, you have to have
