02/07/1977
IWDM Study Library
The Christ Movement: Part 4

By Imam W. Deen Mohammed


IWDM:	Don't tell her, "I bought you a mink coat on your birthday. I bought you a diamond ring when we got married." Don't tell her that. That ain't nothing. She knows that. Look, a woman, she don't forget the goods. Things that she remembers only today and forget the goods, but she doesn't. She remembers it. It's back in her mind.

	Don't bring it up by going directly to it. Bring it up this way. "Baby, I realize that I could have been better to you." See? Don't say I've done this and I've done that. Say I realize that I could be better to you. I could have been better to you, but I don't think you have any right to disrespect me or to refuse to accept good advice when I give it to you.

	Especially when it's Muslim Islamic [inaudible 00:01:04]. So that's it. That's it. Now the good is going to come to her mind when you say I know I could have been better. It's going to hit her harder than if you had named everything you did. What bigger means could have been better. You're the saddest nigger on earth. Brothers, stop beating your wives. I came out here to make to main points tonight other than to teach you about yourselves.

	One was to tell you don't use anything but the sex organ for sex. Believe me, the sex organ can really do wonders. Well, I couldn't be on this phone with you I'm sorry. I'm on the hook up. I hope it's Friday. I hope it's a Friday hookup. Won't be nobody listening but us menfolk. Won't be ... What do you call those people, operators. I hope it don't be no operators on the line.

	Look brothers, you can take your sex organ in your hand and you can do all the maneuvers with that that your finger can do, that your tongue can do. I'm telling you. You can take that in your hand and you can play and play and play and, if you play in the right spaces in the right places and spaces, with your sex organ. He's going to come around. That's right. He's going to come around. I'll tell you another thing this old crazy mentality has done to us it has made us restrain ourselves in the sex.

	When a man is having sex he don't want to be making no calculated movements, timing everything. He don't be making no- going through all of this heart. He don't go through all of that gooey stuff. You know what the right spots are that make her feel good. What he does is play around with ... Not with the mouth, not with the hands, play around with the penis.

	Place the penis around in those spots and when you get ready to go in don't go in like some old crazy youngster that was told you're supposed to do left, right. You go in and this is a blessed thing. This is nothing but blessed blood. You understand? You go into it like blessed. We're heat. All right. If you feel like panting, pant a little bit. Wait a minute. Whenever you feel like panting, do you feel like [inaudible 00:05:03].

	Look, the other way was unnatural. I'm telling you the natural way. Don't be saying sweetheart, is this all right? You've killed everything. She don't want to hear no voice like that. You get to an honorable thing. This is the beginning of life, not the first stage or second stage or the completion of life. You're at the beginning of life. You're making life. You act like blessed. Look, if you think you're weak, start that even before you get started. Oh, I can't stand it. I can't stand it. All right.

	You take her mind off of shyness and off of what you were thinking about. She can't get into this mood for looking at you. It's all right. Is it bothering his conscious? Let her know. No, this ain't bothering my conscious. This is natural. All right. Let's go home and be men. Let's be intelligent. Let's not stop the thing of life. Just gradually bring things into order. Assalamu Alaikum.
