01/25/1976
IWDM Study Library
The Light of Truth

By Imam W. Deen Mohammed
Imam W.D. Mohammed: With the name of Allah, the Beneficent, the merciful. May His peace and His blessings forever be upon His servant and His messenger Muhammad forever. Ameen. In the greetings of all the prophets from Abraham, to Muhammad, the greetings of peace, I greet you. As-sal?mu ?alaykum.
Congregation: Wa alaykum as-salam.
Imam W.D. Mohammed: First I must say, I really thank the minister Aziz and minister Muhammad Abdullah and minister Nair Akbar for the great delivery that they have made here this afternoon and for the support. The genuine support that they gave me in this office. It's hard to get started once people have put you up so high and praise you so much. I don't feel that I deserve all that but I know the Office deserves all that and even more.
When I speak of the Office, I mean the mission that almighty G-d has given us and the responsibilities that we're charged with, is worthy of all the praise that they gave it and even more. Now, brothers and sisters, I have many things that I would like to say to you. I'll try to get to them as quick as possible but I would like to do it as naturally as possible. Therefore, I don't want to rush into anything.
We have some dignitaries out here from the Latin-American community. I want to thank them for their presence today. It's a bad day out today, we have snow out there. This is our main meeting, our big meeting. We've had so many nice Sundays and now on the fourth Sunday, when I come out here to see you and talk with you, we have snow out there. Well, I hope it didn't stop anybody that's supposed to be here.
As long as it didn't stop anybody that's supposed to be here, then I'm all right. For the benefit of our honorable guests from the Latin-American community, I want to tell you that when I speak on religion, I don't feel that I'm speaking as a Muslim in the sense that the world sees and accept Muslim. I don't feel that I'm speaking as a Christian or as a Jew or as any particular religious society or people.
I feel I'm speaking as one who believes in Almighty G-d, the creator of the Heavens and the earth. And I have the right to speak and feel comfortable anywhere and with any people because we all are one creation and we all have one boss over us. 

01/25/1976
IWDM Study Library
The Light of Truth Pt.2

By Imam W. Deen Mohammed

The world has become so confused, that it's pretty hard to really identify Muslims or Christians or Jews. Muslims have stopped living like Muslims. Christians have stopped living like Christians. And Jews long time ago stopped living like Jews, that is like they are supposed to live.
It's a big problem when we try to put labels on each other and deal with labels. The matter is made simple when we ignore the label and deal with the content. That's what we want to we want to do, we want to deal with the content. The Holy Quran tells us- and we can plainly see that when we study the great religion and the great religious movement- the Holy Quran tells us that the divine content is the same in all the great religions.
The Holy Quran tells us again that the messengers, the prophet and messengers of G-d: Abraham, Moses, Jesus, Muhammad, all of them. The Holy Quran tells us that they belong to one prophet-hood. They preached and expected a Messiah, one like David who would be brave enough to stand before the Romans, like little David stood before Goliath and by himself challenged the great Roman power and defeat them with truth.
But when Jesus came up and won such great acclaim among the people, they didn't, that is the leadership, the established leadership of the Jews. Those strong sect in Judaism. They didn't recognize Jesus, they didn't accept Jesus. Why? Because Jesus wasn't the kind of Messiah that they were looking for. Instead of Jesus doing what they thought he was going to do or what they thought the Messiah would do, he did what they never expected.
They were expecting him to stand up and condemn Rome, but he stood up and condemned his own people. He stood up and condemned the hypocritical Jew. They didn't want him, but Jesus knew he was wise and divinely guided. He knew that he had to do first thing first. If a people have an enemy, an oppressor over them, they can't do anything about their conditions. They should first look at what's happening in their own hearts and minds. Because something has gone wrong within the community to make it possible for an oppressor to get power and a firm position over them.
Jesus went home at the real cause of the problem. He said, "You lying, hypocritical Jews. You devils in disguise." That man did a great work, he truly left the signs in history that a savior was indeed born. He was a savior. That's what it takes to save a people. The courage to do a thing that they don't like but that you know is good for them. How good would a doctor be if he would be concerned about the taste of his medicine?
He wouldn't be good at all because most medicine tastes bitter in the mouth. All praises are due to Allah. Just relax and let your mind do right things for you today. Most of us, we hold our minds back and we won't allow our divinely giving mind, our conscience to do right things for us. The Book says that darkness has come upon the whole word. So, Jesus' first appearance in Scripture is described as one coming under the cover of darkness, in a dark time. A time when the earth was dark, that is the society, the people were in darkness, the masses but the leadership had light.
The Book speaks of two firmaments and we have wrongly taken these firmaments to be earth and Heaven, or physical earth and physical sky. The Book is not talking about that. The Book is talking about things that resemble in their nature, in their purpose, they resemble physical earth and physical sky but are not physical earth and physical sky. The Book speaks of two firmaments, the lower and the upper.
The lower one represents the ignorant people, the deprived, the rejected, the unschooled. And the upper firmament represents the favored, those who were favored with knowledge and with wealth. And because of that, they have a position of power over the common people. Who favored this upper firmament in the beginning? It was G-d. In the beginning, G-d opened the way to everybody to get wealth, to get knowledge.
And those who had the best qualification, they got the wealth and got the knowledge. But after they got it, then others began to envy what they had. Jealousy and envy came into the picture. People began to war against each other and rob each other of their rights. Then the snake himself, the devil himself, the wicked mind, ungodly mind of men, hiding under religious garments, conspired to take over that Heaven that G-d originally established, conspired to take over that original religious society that G-d first inspired to hold the torch of truth high for humanity.
They conspired against them and got themselves into seats of authority. So, when Jesus came, this was the condition of Jerusalem. The conspirators were ruling the religious order. The hypocrites. They had the light but they were withholding the light from the masses. Darkness wasn't on the firmament, darkness wasn't over Heaven, darkness was over the earth, it was over the weak, the meek, the deprived. But the Book says that Christ will return. It says that when He returns, He will return in the clouds of Heaven.
The upper firmament will be dark and confused and disturbed. Today, brothers and sisters, we have lived to see that time. When darkness is not on the earth. The masses, the common people, they know what's right and know what's wrong. They have seen the wrongdoings of leadership, the average person out there in the streets can condemn the preacher who's lying right now maybe in his pulpit.
Today, darkness is not on the face of the earth, darkness is over the Heavens. The average person right now in the street can condemn government leaders for their conduct. But there was a time a few centuries ago, when the masses were so kept out of everything before television, before literacy, the masses were kept out of everything. And the people, the common lot could not point a finger and judge those who were ruling over them. They had to contend with, they had to put up with whatever was put on them by the leadership.
But we've come to the time that the Book prophesied of, that there will come a time when the ground will be lit with knowledge, the common people out there, they have light. They know truth, they can't read the Bible because they were not given the Bible. They were given a rational mind and they were given an experience of centuries of enslavement and deprivation. This experience has lit their mind. The natural conscience that Almighty G-d gave them lights their heart.
They're not in darkness but the church is in darkness, the synagogue is in darkness, the mosque is in darkness. I speak as an eye witness, I've been around the Jews, I've sat with them, I've been to Christian churches, I've sat with them, I've been in the mosques abroad, I've sat with them and I know that darkness is upon the Heavens today but there is light on the earth.
What does the Book say? What will happen to remove the darkness of the Heavens? The Book says that His coming will be as a flash of light out of the east, even onto the west. I'll explain this. Not by my own wisdom but by what Almighty G-d has blessed us with. In order to remove the confusion in religion today, it is necessary to go back to where this religious teaching started and trace it up to where we are today.
We have to bring it from Jerusalem to Chicago and not have a single break in the chain of light that stretch from Jerusalem to Chicago. That's what has to be done before the religious order today can be lit up again with light. Why? Because someone has broken up that chain of light. They've separated Abraham from Moses, Moses from Jesus, Jesus from Muhammad, they have put blocks of darkness in the great chain of prophets in the movement of truth from G-d to us.
In order to see clearly again, we have to again see that light stretching from the east to the west in an even unbroken pattern. What does the Book say? It says that Jesus will come, when he comes, he will come to judge, he will come to condemn, he will come to reprove the righteous, to justify the righteous. He will come to satisfy the hearts and the minds, those burdened hearts and minds that have held on to the truth in G-d, that have respected righteousness and humanity, but have suffered the greatest hell that any human being or any creature could be put in.
He will bring comfort to their minds and to their hearts by explaining to them the thing that took place and He will condemn the wicked. Who will the wicked be that He will condemn? They will be the same ones that he condemned before, that's why the return of this light is called Christ again. Because the job the man has to do is the same. He's not coming to chase common prostitutes, and make them confess their sin.
He's not coming to chase people who eat physical forbidden things, those hog eaters who eat physical hog flesh. His return is not to chase them around and to make them confess their sins. He is not going to come pointing a finger down on earth. On his return, he does the same thing he did the first time he came, he points up at the Heavens. The first time he came around, he pointed at the Heavens and he said, "The earth is dark because the Heaven is a hypocrite."
The second time he comes around he says, "The Heaven is dark because of G-d's judgment. You are hypocrites so G-d took the light away from you and made your Heavens dark." Now that's what I'm saying to you, that mosque, church, and synagogue have been hypocrites and the Heavens are dark today because G-d has condemned them and taken their light away.
He cut the light off in the synagogue, and in the church and in the mosque because they didn't deserve to have His light shining up there in that so-called Heaven. "Oh, how can you speak that way? Look at the good Christians have done”. Look at the good the devil has done. “Look at the good the mosque has done.” Again, I say, look at the good the devil has done. Do you think the devil is all bad? The devil always shows more good than he shows bad, but he produced more hell than he produced Heaven.
The Jews, the Christians and the Muslims, they have shown more good than they have shown bad, but the effect that they have left on the earth has been more hellish than it has been divine. I don't speak before I give it a lot of thought, and I don't speak before I look at what G-d has established. I don't speak from my own establishment, I speak from that that G-d has established. I went to Arabia, I found crooks.
I was raised as a so-called negro in Chicago, and the Jews I saw were crooks. Tavern owners, pawn shop owners. My people lived under Christian rule for almost four centuries now and our history is one of the cruelest kind of enslavement that you can read about anywhere. So, let's look at the work and judge the doers of that work. I admit that there are some Christians who don't go along with the majority, who never went along with the majority.
I admit that there are some Jews who have never gone along with the majority and there are Muslims who have never gone along with the majority, but you have to look at the facts. If the minority among the Jews are wicked, then the majority have let the minority come into power. If the majority among the Christians are good, then I say that majority have let a minority come into power. If the majority among Muslims are good, then that majority have let a minority come into power.
That is the fact, that's the truth. If they speak from their scripture, and they preach the truth, then they have to present something that will condemn them for what they have done. I read the Bible and believe me, I understand it. The Bible from Genesis- and I mean from the very first verse of Genesis to the end of the book- preaches against deceit, lying, craftiness, greed, murder, enslavement, hypocrisy.
These things are condemned from Genesis to Revelations. Preaches against materialism. The book from Genesis to Revelation goes after the protection of the weak, the unschooled, the deprived, but what have Christian establishments done? They have gone after the weak, the uneducated, the deprived, to put shackles on their arms and on their legs. That's the history behind us and if wasn't for us fighting hard and risking our lives everyday for the last 40 years or more, we would be in shackles right now.
I know what the Holy Quran preach, I read it and I understand it. The Holy Quran preaches against the withholding of knowledge, from people, wherever they be on the face of the earth. The Holy Quran preaches against a monopoly, a holy monopoly of G-d's truth. I found Imams, who hold a monopoly on the truth and pass out peanut hulls to the people who come to their mosque to hear them on Friday. I'm telling you what I've seen, I know what happens, Almighty G-d wouldn't have picked me before letting me know what was happening.
I don't want you to get spooky. I don't want you to get spooky and think that I'm saying I'm some supernatural being, or some new Christ, or new prophet Muhammad. No, I'm nothing but a common person like you are but who, because of his sincerity, G-d has rewarded that sincerity with more light than He put on any man to this very day.
You may say, "How can you have more light than Christ Jesus?" There was not as much darkness when Christ Jesus was here. "How can you have as much light as the Holy prophet Muhammad of Arabia?" There was not as much darkness when prophet Muhammad of Arabia was here. The conditions were horrible in the times of those great men, but darkness hadn't covered the whole earth yet.
The big old continent, almost a third of the world hadn't even been discovered yet, by that known world of yesterday. Look at all of the problems that have come out of human nature, and out of human society since Moses, since Jesus, since Muhammad of Arabia. The world has grown in darkness like something corrupt, something filthy burning, and the dark smoke pouring out. It poured out so much in Moses' day, so much in Jesus' day, so much in Muhammad's day but today, the whole world is polluted, brothers and sisters.
I'm not saying that I'm a greater man than any of those. I wouldn't dare say that. I'm not saying that I'm a greater man than the last one, the last prophet from G-d, Muhammad, may peace be on him. I'm saying that light now is bigger and greater than it was in his day. Even the light that he held before the world, the Holy Quran, it's bigger today than it was in those days. His knowledge was big. His knowledge was bigger than the knowledge that existed in the world at that time, but prophet Muhammad of Arabia, he was not in a position, the conditions hadn't been brought about. He couldn't give the world the whole light that He had received. He only could give the Holy Quran. And if you don't have any sense, if you're not inspired, you can read that Holy Quran, and when you read it off to me, you might not light up my closet, less more the world. Now, hold up. It takes some kind of understanding, and conditions, experiments, circumstances. All of these natural things work to bring light out more and more.
And as our understanding grow bigger, our light grow bigger, because our focus has widened to take in more light. Do you understand? The people that Jesus spoke to, they lived in a world, the conditions, the circumstances, the experiments that they had undergone, were only great enough to open the focus so much to receive so much light. Prophet Muhammad of Arabia, the conditions, the circumstances, the experiments that they had undergone, were only great enough to open the focus of Arabia under the leadership of prophet Muhammad only so much. But today, brothers and sisters, the divine plan is truly universal.
It's in universal dimension, for the devil and his hell, have been all around the world, and have elapsed, have put a band from North Pole to South Pole, around the Equator. They have covered the Earth with hell and confusion, and the people have the experiment of hell and confusion all over the world. Now, television and all these other modern inventions have focused the whole world scene, so that the average man and woman anywhere in the world can look at the whole world's picture at one time.
This has worked to open up the mind, to expand the mind of the common people. The man that comes today, brothers and sisters, he can give more light because the receptors are bigger. The focus of the people is big enough to see the light. Whereas yesterday, it was too small to see the light. I say that to explain what I said. I told you that the light that G-d has blessed me with is bigger than any light that shone before from the men before. It's not bigger than the Holy Quran. It's not bigger than the Bible, but it's bigger than the Bible that this world has seen so far. It's bigger than the Holy Quran that this world has seen so far. Do you understand?
Congregation: Yes. 
Imam W.D. Mohammed: I know what the people will say. They'll say, "He talks a lot, he's a big boaster, but they're just empty words. The man can't be compared with Moses, and Christ Jesus, and Muhammad of Arabia." Well, I have been preaching now for almost a year. Go back and look at what Jesus did in one year, look at what Moses did in one year, look at what Muhammad of Arabia did in one year. Then come back and answer that person again for me.
Don't measure what I've done, with the finished work, I haven't finished. I just got started. And if G-d blessed me to do all the things that He's shown me, I believe 10 years from today, there'd be a great population confessing that this is truly the return of the light of Christ and Muhammad. They will confess that the hope that has been in the people for the return of Christ and for the return of the light of Muhammad, as he presented it in his day, has been answered in this mission right here in America among the Bilalian community.
I believe that the time will come within 10 years that it will be common knowledge, that it is confessed high and low, that the Lost found Nation of Islam is the manifestation of the true light of Christ, and the true light of Muhammad. You just hang around here for 10 more years. When Jesus was on the scene, he worked with what was left behind him, and with what G-d had blessed Him with, so did prophet Muhammad of Arabia. Now, I have all of them behind me, and G-d has blessed me and inspired me in the same way that He inspired them, to see into darkness and point out what is right and what is wrong.
That’s the blessing of G-d that He gives to prophets. He not only gives that blessing to prophets, He gives that blessing to anyone who deserves it. There’s not a need for prophets anymore. Prophets come to put light again on the path of G-d so that people will be able to distinguish the path of G-d among other paths. Prophets come to show again the way of G-d when that way is lost. The Jews lost the way, they got off on the wrong path.
They were preaching spiritual teachings, spiritual values, but the path they were walking on was the path of material conquest. They were on the road to manifest as any common tyrant, so G-d sent Jesus to stop them and take the favor away from them. Jesus told them, “that the Son of Man came to the fig tree for fruit, and it had no fruit to offer him.” He said, "Cursed be the fig tree." Fig tree was a symbol of Judaism. He said, "Cursed be the fig tree. Bear fruit no more."
The Book said it right away withered up, didn’t wait. As soon as He spoke, it was all over. Right away, the fig tree withered up, meaning as soon as Jesus opened his pure mouth and his sincerity was heard, the hypocritical Jewish establishment was finished. They couldn't attract and lead righteous people anymore, they could only keep what they had, that was their materialistic, so-called righteous establishment. They kept their own people, but they didn’t win people from the world anymore, did they?
They didn’t go out preaching in the world anymore like they did before Jesus. Look how Jeremiah preached, how Ezekiel preached. Look how Moses challenged Pharaoh in the name of G-d, but after Jesus came, we didn’t see Jerusalem. We didn’t see the Jews out on the world scene standing up for G-d, they went into secrecy, they teach their children behind closed doors, they’re not seen out in the open inviting people to the way of G-d and condemning the world for its wrong.
Why? Because they know that they had gotten in the top, they had gotten the top seat among those wrongdoers that keep the world miserable. When Jesus condemned them openly, they just couldn’t come out no more, so right away they withered away, is that right? All right, let’s go on with it. You might not be ready to move on where G-d is moving us, but we've got to move on.
The favor was taken away from the Jews and given to the Christians. The Christians became G-d’s mouthpiece in the world. The Christian movement began to point the finger at Pharaoh and condemned Pharaoh and tell Pharaoh, "Let my people go." Is that right? I’m not talking about Pharaoh of Egypt now. I have to talk to some of these that have a problem of rusty locks and no oil to grease those rusty locks, and no key to open it even if they greased it.
But the Christians stood up and took the job, the role from the Jews and began to condemn evil tyrants in the world for oppressing and corrupting the society. The Christians came into power and they fell victim of the same thing that the Jews fell victim of. They got the material wealth and they start oppressing others. Instead of carrying light to those in darkness, they carried slavery to those in darkness, chained them and kept them back from education and real scriptural meat, divine truth, gave the world, that is, the general society, that accepted Christian rules.
The leadership gave them scriptural drunkenness. What do I mean by that? A lot of spirit but no vision. A lot of spirit, a little intelligence. A lot of spirit, little reasoning, and just made the masses of our people drunk in religion. I remember as a child, walking through the streets of Chicago, I passed by churches and they really excited me. Sometimes I was frightened by a sudden outburst from a storefront church, sounded like people were fighting in the place.
I’m not making fun, believe me, I’m very serious. The sound of furniture falling, doors slamming, screaming, people jumping up and down. When I got old enough to go to the church for myself because when I was little, I wouldn’t dare ask my parents, "Could I go to church?" When I got in my teens and felt that I could go, when I had an excuse then, "Oh, I'm going fishing" but really, I wasn't going fishing. I wanted to go and see for myself what in the hell was going on in those churches. Excuse my language.
Excuse my language but hell is a common word and a condition we all commonly share, so it shouldn’t offend anybody. I used to hear what was happening, so I wanted to see what was happening. Believe it or not, the first church I went to, I almost got knocked out, I’m telling you the truth. G-d let me experience these things for a purpose.
I came to this holiness church, I think it was holiness. I’ll tell you who was the preacher, Reverend Robert, Robert's church. It was, let’s see, where that church was. It was a bit north and a little west. I think 40th street, somewhere like that, I think, if I’m not mistaken. This has been some time. You’ll be surprised how old I am. I'm as old as Moses was. Anyway, when I went to this church before I got in the door, I just got the door almost open and the door slammed back in my face and almost knocked me out. It didn't hit me, but if it had hit me, I would've been knocked out. I opened the door and then this woman was standing at the door. I said, "Look." I said, "You come again to the door again while I'm standing here and push that door like that." I said, "I'm going to really straighten you out." I said, "I'm going to knock you down in the floor." You know what? She sobered up right away.

She did. She sobered up right away and went walking all in up the aisle, but after about 10 to 15 minutes of that and drum beating, she got back on the job of stomping up and down the aisle. She running and-- She running, she just got running. She got the holy ghost, it made her just rip and run. She was opening and slam in the door and slam out of the door.
I began now observing what was happening in some of these churches. Finally, I got around to the dignified aristocratic church, the Cathedral, the Catholic church. I went to the Catholic church, I said this look like a dog on funeral service. I'm telling you how this thing impressed me. I've never gone into these places on one condition, to know what was going on, you see? I had to identify that thing with something that I already I knew about. Nobody explained it to me.
They walked down these old deathly looking aisles. Girl told me I had to come to the Catholic church before she would come to the temple with me. I told him, "Okay, I wanted to go anyway." Excuse me if I don't fasten this old, tight suit here. I’m going to leave it open if it's okay with you. All right, I walked down the aisle with this sister, the priest was standing, speaking in unknown tongues.

It was unknown to me and then when I got out, I asked the girl, does she understand what he said. She said, "Some of it." She was been trained, for I don't know what to call it in this church, but she was being trained for something that. There was a boy that carried something, an altar boy and then a girl that they trained too for something. That do, little duties in the church, all this is with the church. I forget what it was, but she was being trained for something.
He was standing up there with all of his ghostly clothes on.
Believe me, I'm not doing this to make fun. I'm doing this to drive a point home. That is that this world has been nothing much more than darkness and silence, though they've been making a lot of noise and shining a lot of false light.
He was up there with all his ghost clothes on, saying something and Amen and the pulpit did look like somebody was going to be sacrificed in some black magic ritual and everybody walked in like it was a death walk. Nobody went in like a human being.
I'm telling you the truth. I'm just describing to you what was there. They went in like they were doing a death walking and they looked like they had death on their mind. Maybe all the churches weren't like that, I don't know, but that's the way this one looked. The atmosphere in this one was deathly.
As we came out, the girl kneeled down, she put a quarter or something, I can't remember exactly. But I think she put a quarter somewhere and then she lit a candle and she said a prayer and she kneeled before a statue. I don't remember whether it was Mary or some saint, but she kneeled before some statue too. I said, "Look at these pagans, idol worshippers." That stuck in my mind. Now, look, I was only about 13 or 14 years old, that experience stuck in my mind. Finally, I got on the rostrum, the pulpit in the temple, they didn't even recognize us as a religion, but we didn't kneel down to no engraving images.
I got on the pulpit and I began to think about that catholic church. I said to myself, "Those people are nothing, but cannibals." They're not carrying out the act, but they're going through the ritual of cannibalism. Taking a cracker and biting and talking about this is the flesh of Christ. Drinking some communion wine, what do you call this? "This the blood of Christ." No wonder they came out with Dracula movie, they got it from the Catholic church.

The idea is there at least. They're drinking blood and Dracula drinks blood and he has to have his blood, he can't live without his blood and they have to have their communion, you can't be a Christian without communion. Eating crackers and drinking wine that represents flesh and blood. Now, how do you think that's going to affect the mind? No matter how much you love G-d and righteousness and humanity on the surface. These evil, these cannibalistic concepts, these cannibalistic rituals about to trickle down through your conscious mind and to your subconscious and going to make you act as a devil though you believe yourself to be a saint.
Now, look at Christian society and see what is there, cannibalism. I was put in jail for not going to the army. And in jail, I became acquainted with Indians, Sioux and another Indians. Up there in Sandstone, Minnesota. And those Indians told me of their way of life that was passed down to them by their father and I saw that their way of life was very positive. Much more decent than the way of life that these people call Christians, established for us in this society. Things that are accepted, not even questioned. In this society, I found that those Indians looked down on it and put their nose away from it. It was vile and funky smelling in their nose, but this society do it and feel no shame. And the priest won't come before the television and condemn the society.
He won’t say, “make this world, make this country right or be the enemy of the church.” No, no, he won't break friendship with the government to correct the society. He tolerates these evils, because really, he's just there to make a business, he's there to make a business and not to make a world for our mighty G-d. Well, I can't go into some of these things, but I'll just give you a little idea of how you can point out the manifestation of this kind of ritualism, that is against decency and against G-d.
What do you think feeds the fire of destruction, racism and hatred in the Ku Klux Klan? It's Christianity. They used Christianity to justify their position, the stance that they take. When Christians went from Europe to Africa as it is called, to conquer the Africans and take over their wealth, what do you think they used to justify that wicked march of the conqueror? Christianity. When they left Europe and came here and saw a need to wipe out the Indians, what do you think they used to justify that wicked position they took? Christianity.
When they went to Africa and bought your and my mother back here in chains, what do you think they used to justify that wicked act? Christianity. Now if any of you fat headed preachers in here today want to challenge me on any point that I have made, when I finish, let me see your ugly pig face.
No, no, no, no. Hold up. You come here and you say the minister, "He's all right, he preaches the Bible like we do. The minister is all right. The Islam he preaches akin to our Christianity." Look here man, don't you dare associate me with yourself again. If you're worth me being associated with in any way, you would be right here preaching what I'm preaching.

We have preachers that have come from the church and contacted us and they have told me through my representatives that, "I have a church, but I want to turn that church over to you. I want the church to become Muslim. Say how can we do it? How can I do it?" I told them to do it gradually. Don't do it all of a sudden, do it gradually. Give the people as much as they can take. When you finally can't take it anymore, that they haven't come to this point, leave them and come on here and preach this gospel that you accept.
But there is another preacher who just comes and listen to go back and be more effective with his own thing. He has no intention of bringing his people to this way, his intention is just to preserve his own power and control over his congregation. It's that stinking devil, they associate me with him and say we are preaching the same thing, you're a liar, what you are preaching is wickedness, what you are preaching is enslavement.

As long as a preacher holds a cross up with a white man on it. You can name him G-d, you can name him the three Hebrew boy in one, you can name him Abraham Lincoln. I don't care what you name him. As long as you hold a white body on a cross before the people and tell them this is the manifestation of G-d, this is G-d in the flesh, you are promoting white supremacist, you are feeding it and keeping it in existence and you are not my brother. How can you be my brother?

You now only a shrewd devil that have on put on the skates of the mighty Satan himself. They know how to skate around truth, all they can figure skate and everything else. They say, "Well, no matter flesh G-d manifests himself in, aren't we one humanity?" That's the words of the devil trying to blind us to the evil that they want to put over. If G-d picks a man to represent himself as the manifestation of the real person of G-d on earth and have a particular flesh to put himself in and to represent himself in, if it's black, it's black divine racism, if it's Caucasian, then it's Caucasian divine racism.
G-d never put His finger on a race and say, "That's where I exist. That's where I chose to put myself so that I can speak to the world." He has never done that. As corrupt as the Bible is, by the interpolation and interpretations that have been made by church leadership, still that Bible does not say that. You have to read it again brothers and sisters. The Bible never says that Jews as a flesh people are the favorite people of G-d. Only as long they follow in the spirit of G-d, the book says are they worthy to be called the children of G-d.
So, the book says. And the book has a lot of verses and chapters showing us how G-d took His blessing away from one of a certain family and put it on another one of another family. How He took his blessing from one people and gave it to another, because that people didn't stand up and respect the duties, He placed on them. 





















01/25/1976
IWDM Study Library
The Light of Truth Pt.3

By Imam W. Deen Mohammed


All right. Again, you see it's not G-d. This is me, Jesus made it plan.
Jesus got hungry, Jesus had to eat, Jesus had to be washed, Jesus even had to be baptized by John and before that he was circumcised. And the book says that he was educated and made sanctified. That's what the book says of Jesus. The book says that he grew in knowledge and Jesus didn't say anything to contradict those things in the scripture. Jesus spoke of himself as a common person, as a human being. He says, "I don't know everything. I can't tell you what will happen on tomorrow, only G-d knows that."
On the cross, when he was dying as the Christian book gives it, he said, "Oh G-d, oh G-d, what have you forsaken me?" Letting us know that G-d ain't dying on this cross, it's only me dying on this cross. Oh G-d, oh my G-d, oh my G-d, what have you forsaken me? Let the world know that G-d is not dying on the cross. I'm dying on the cross." Then the Christian church take a body that was not G-d and put it up before me and you and tell you this is G-d. He is G-d. This is G-d's body. G-d manifests himself on earth in his son Christ. Here he is, pray to Christ.
Did they teach your father and your mother to pray to G-d, the creator of the heaven and earth? Tell me the truth. They told you to pray to Jesus. Didn't they? “Call on Jesus. Oh, when you get in trouble, just call on Jesus.” Jesus never told anybody, “if you get in trouble, call on me.” He said, “If you get in trouble, call on my heavenly father that is not only my heavenly father, but is also your heavenly father.” The plan of making a white body the vessel holding almighty G-d was part of the plan to enslave all the darker people of the world.
I said all the darker people of the world. Europe came up with Christianity and they saw they had a powerful thing that would give them control over the whole world. They said, if we can pull all white people together, don't call white, I don't call them white. This paper is white, snow is white. The Caucasian race is pink, orange, red, blue, pale, they're all kind of colors. All right now. They said, "If we can get the world, all to call us white folks and show Christ as a white man. If we go into their lake and tell them that the savior of the world is Christ, a white man, they will look at us as saviors. Led by divine savior.
They will include us in the Holy Family. In the divine family. And when they rebel against us once we're getting control over them, if they rebel against us, in the back of their mind, something will be knocking and holding them back saying, "Don't attack the image of G-d." They planned to put the white man's image deep in the mind and heart of all dark people so that when you rise up, something will click in your mind and wouldn’t even speak clearly to your mind. Because the trick was so subtle, the trick was so hid that a language wasn’t spoken, only a symbol was given.
When you start to rise up and protect yourself, a message won’t come in words, only a symbol or a signal will come. And you won't even recognize what it is. It will come as a feeling telling you, “don't attack master.” And that has been the condition of the black world until the light came from the east and shined even onto the west. So, why you think they encouraged you to be Christians? Because that was keeping you in the corral, the church teaching is nothing but a corral for the work animals of America. To keep your work animal, they designed that corral and they used all the teachings that they could possibly twist out of context. “Don't hate those who hate you. Turn the other cheek and pray for those who spitefully use you. If your enemy takes your clothes, give them all so your what? Given them all your under clothes, your socks and your shoes. Go on, walk away naked. Don't get angry. And if your enemy come and ask you to walk a mile with him, what did it say? Don't walk a mile with him, walk two miles with him.” Now, look, that's what our fathers and mothers were saying into their minds and hearts, by the Church preacher to keep us quiet, submissive, obedient, to wicked cruel leadership. We wondered how come the black community didn't rise up by thousands? And throw stones or sticks or do something when the Caucasian took an innocent one of them and lynched them, set his body a fire and burn them alive while they drink and have a party before the burning corpse. They wondered, outside society. They wonder, how come we didn't rebel? They thought the white man's physical might that his physical weapon had intimidated us to the extent that we wouldn't move. No, it was not. It was his Christianity that held us in checked. We feared that G-d didn't want us to do that. That we wouldn't be satisfying Christ if we behave like that. The greatest chain they put on us was Christ. Let anybody condemn it. It wasn't the physical chain brothers and sisters.
The greatest chain that this world ever put on you and me was Jesus Christ. We have to get the truth out. We wanted to be like Jesus. Oh, I got to talk on. It's getting late, but I'm going to tell you this. We wanted to be like Jesus, because they had designed that message to make everybody that had any innocence in them, everybody that had any real sincerity, they would want to be like Jesus, because Jesus was the ideal human being. They fed us this Jesus to make us want to be like Jesus. The people that were more susceptible, more open to this faith that they were going to give the world was those who suffered like Jesus suffered. You see? Who are they? They are the poor outcast. They are the poor rejected people of the world.
They wondered how come the Indian wouldn't buy the bait? These Indians are poor, they are primitive, but they weren't poor in the sense that we were poor. And that many other people over the world were poor. When they tried to feed this bait to the Indians, the Indian said, "No, I don't want it, take it back home pale face.” They had a hell of a time getting the Indians, the American Indian to buy Christianity.
Back up to today, they don't have them all accepting Christianity. Most of the Indians, they have their own idea about what religion should be or what it is. They had to wipe them out. That shows you that Christianity was their safeguard. You understand? Any people that wouldn't accept Christianity had to be wiped out, because that people wouldn't have a safety, what do you call it? Something to hold them in check. Valve, they wouldn’t have no safety valve on them, you see. The Indian if he didn't accept the church, how can we contain him? How can we judge him? How could we keep him in order?
But if we put a safety valve on him, Christianity, the moment he gets hot and the steam shooting out there, "Wait a minute, you're going to bust the valve and valve is holy. That's Christ you're about to break. 
They couldn't get the Indians to accept it. They say, "We're going to have to kill them out. We're going to have to beat them down, whip them down, cut them down to small enough numbers and put them on reservations so that we don't have to worry about them.” But the black man of America, they said, “Oh, just keep working on his head and his heart with Jesus. And in time, we can let him integrate, because he will be safe. No risk in our society. We can sleep sound at night. The safety valve, Jesus Christ, will certainly go off if he gets out of order.
And we won't have to go and make adjustments to keep the steam down. Good Christian blackie will do it himself.” And that's what our community has been like. The preacher has stood out front, right? Telling us, “how Americans are supposed to be, what Christians are supposed to be. And you are supposed to be Christian folks. We are Christian folks. I don't care what you hear others doing. Remember you are Christ people. We belong to Jesus.”
When you begin to get ready to slap the face of that lion that's turned into a bear, then the bear turned into a monster out of some horror book. And you getting ready to slap that ugly vicious monster. The preacher grabs your hand, "Wait a minute, brother, what are you about to do?"
You say, “Reverend I’m about to stop this dog from killing more of us.” Reverend says, “No, remember Jesus. Put your hand on the cross and remember Jesus.” And poor brother nursed on about and walk away, if he can.
So, how can I tell you that G-d is going to let the army of cross carriers walk in the same gate of His kingdom that me and these followers walk in. I can't tell you that. Those who carry the cross, they're going to stopped at the gate and you're going to questioned. "Haven't you heard the truth of the cross?" And if you just happen to be one of those who's so far away from hearing that you actually didn't hear it, it will be explained to you and you will be told your heart is good, but your mind is wrong.
So, if you will just change your old mind for the right mind, you can get rewards that your good heart has earned.” And many of those, they're going to be so selfish, so self-righteous, so devoted to Jesus. Because Jesus in their subconscious is themselves. That they aren't going to take him off that cross. They're going to say, "No, I'm a Christian and this is my sacred sign, Christ is the Lord.” And lose all the rewards that their good heart can earn them.
Then others will be asked and they will confess, "Yes, we heard the message, exposing the evils of the cross.” Well why do you come here with it? You're going to be cast away. And your hell will be an eternity. Because you won't have a chance until the whole creation has vanished. Now, I'm telling you this brothers and sisters. So, that if there's some of them who really want to go right. You make up your mind today knowing the truth. Our fathers and mothers, they used to sing a song about the cross, “the old emblem of suffering, shame, and death.”
Your slave grandparents had more sense than you. They said, "Someday I hope to exchange this old cross for a starry crown." They didn't want it. They understood that it was a burden, an evil thing on Jesus and that Jesus in heaven will not have the cross, but will have a starry crown. They wanted to one day get rid of the cross and get that starry crown. So, If the cross is something that we all could get rid of, why carry it? Why cherish it?
Let me tell you another powerful evil of the cross. Along with this white supremacy power, it also has a power that is death. The cross makes the people who love the cross lose respect for life. They carry the sign of death and they worship a G-d that is victorious in the grave. So, they begin to subconsciously look to the grave for victory. They even wait until they reach the grave to repent and stop doing their evil doings. They wait till they feel death coming on. Then they say, "Go get a priest. I'm ready to confess my sins." They feel that it's not necessary to really get serious about anything until the graveyard door opens up. That's right.
“So, believe in Christ. Carry the cross on your neck and go in brothers of bedroom and lay with his wife. Go out in the morning to your business and sell liquor to the wine head. Spread alcoholism. But when you feel death coming on you, call the priest. Tell him you're ready to confess.”
It makes you respect death, love death and disrespect life and hate life. Where in the world is life anymore disrespected and abused than it is in Christian land under Christian rule? Look what this government tolerated from the plantation during our captivity. This Christian nation. Look what they tolerate now out there in the street. You got to put yourself in jail to keep people out of your house. Bars all up through your windows, you're in jail. Right? You got to lock yourself up in jail to keep people out of your house from killing you and taking your goods from you. Is that right?
Where else in this world can you go and find people locking themselves up in jail to keep criminals out of their house? I haven't seen that anywhere I've gone and I've been to quite a few places over this world. I haven't seen any place where people have to lock themselves up in jail to keep the criminal out. That means the public has been taken over by criminals and the good people are only safe in jail.
Is that right or wrong?
Where has that happened? In Christian America. In the country that was pointed out as Zion, the new Zion, the new destiny, the holy divine destiny, the hope of humanity. In this land is where those things exist. All right brothers and sisters, how else can you judge the society, if you're not going to judge them by the realities that exist all around you?
I say that this crucifix, this cross, it works to make you love death and disrespect life. You carry the sign of death. When the coffin comes along you take your hat off. Traffic stopped. Poor man ain't carrying nothing but a corpse that's dead and ruined to be placed in the ground and go back to dirt and the traffic stopped for him now. But at one time in his life perhaps he carried G-d’s truth and nobody stop for him.
Perhaps he carried a fair legislation, a fair deal to present to the Justice and nobody stopped for him. He was moving to defend his helpless wife or his helpless children or his helpless neighbor and nobody stopped for him. They all trampled him down in his path but now that he is nothing but a dead corpse. Christian America take their hat off to the grave and stop the traffic for the grave but won't do anything for the living world. But send it down into the grave.
Now, what do you think G-d is going to do with a hellish place like this? He's going to give the government, the powers over to me, or He is going to wipe all away. Believe it or not.
Believe it or not, believe it or not, Almighty G-d is going to give me the control. Believe it or not.
And those that stand in the way, they're going to be ducked under and then buried. Believe it or not. Do you think G-d is going to let this world continue like it is? Do you think He's going to let the church rise again? No, the church is finished. The book says until the fullness of the gentiles be. If American is not understood to be a gentile nation, turned Christian, then what is America?
Where are the gentiles if they're not in Europe and in America? The gentiles are in Europe and America but they have to take on religion and then have a chance to reach their fullness, to show the world and G-d, how they'll rule if they were given opportunity. So, G-d gave them the power and gave them the freedom to rule the whole world, and they reached their fullness and the end is nothing but pollution, corruption and death.
Now, do you think G-d is going to say, "Oh yes, you failed the whole world. You brought racism on the scene, you established white supremacy, you made people conscious of their physical color more than they were conscious of their moral nature. You made people fear to show their black face but not afraid to show their black, wicked heart." Now, do you think G-d is going to let a people like that rule us again? To rule the world?
They don't have a second chance. Anybody that messed up that much, don't have a second chance. Not until the whole cycle is completed again. Well, W D Mohammed how in the world and you're going to lead this world? What qualifications do you have? The power. The power, that's what I have.

This world has ruled because there was no power to challenge it. Now, G-d has blessed us with the power and when we come together as one body, we all share in this power. The power we have can turn the wheels over everywhere. We don't have to be the machinery. We are the power. Do you understand? If you think that I will have to become China and Arabia and Europe and the United States, then you have the wrong idea of what I'm talking about. Those are only parts in a great machinery.
I mean that G-d is going to give me the power and the wheels are going to turn by the power that He's going to bless me with. When I say me, I mean this body. You don't believe it? Live on. Just don't die and you're going to live to see it. The only way you don't see it is if you die.

What I'm calling you to is this. I'm calling you to light and understanding, divine light, and divine understanding. I'm calling you to natural truth, truth that was established naturally in the earth. That G-d Himself planted in the order of creation and grew it out, and then He blessed it with His own inspiration so that that truth will continue to grow and to get in divine dimension.
I am calling you to come back to that truth, to come out of the church. I have to make it plain to you. I'm asking you to come out of the church, come out of the Bible that is the graveyard of all the dark and oppressed people of the world, come out of that Bible. That Bible is not safe for any human being to live in.
If you want to hold on to the Bible, if you love it, then come into the new Bible that I'm giving you in the form of correct interpretation. You don't think much is true, what I am teaching you, I guess. I know you Christians you read what I put in the paper. You can't see any value in it, that justify you putting down what you've got.
Well, you're pitiful, you're really pitiful. You'd rather hold on to the Sunday school, kindergarten, fairy tale presentation than to come into the College of Muhammad. You're pitiful. You think that the masses, that the many uneducated people around you are still so beneath you, that you have to teach them with that kind of fairy tale kindergarten preaching? You're wrong. You're making a big mistake.
The people don't come to you to listen and follow what you're saying, most of them come to you now preacher, to see you lie, to see how big a lie you're going to tell them this Sunday. They come to see how well the choir can perform this Sunday. I'm telling you what the majority of them are coming to you for now, preacher. They're coming to see just how big a hypocrite you can be. They don't even think you're serious anymore, and they're right. They think that you're an actor, and they're coming to see your act.
But you let the community get in trouble, you can't lead them nowhere, preacher. You can’t get this community to do nothing, you can't even get your congregation to do anything. If you want your congregation to do something about the problems in your community, you can't get them to act behind you because you haven't conditioned them, you haven't qualified them to follow any real leadership.
You have conditioned them, qualified them to only be emotional monkeys and clowns under you. That's all you have qualified them to do, so when you get in trouble, real trouble in the society, you can't even depend on your congregation because they're not really followers, they're spectators, they're there to see you clown. The proof of that, the biggest clown has the biggest congregation today, don't they?
The Catholic Church what holds it together? Symbol, that's all. The people go to Catholicism because it's a symbol, it's a symbol of well-to-do, it's a symbol of sophistication, it's a symbol of dignity for those who've been starving for just a symbol, just a dress of dignity, they wear Catholicism. You better put it down brother before it's too late. If you come up too late, you're not going to get a place here with us, not here, you're going to have to sit out there until you perform a divine miracle.

That’s right. I wouldn't trust a preacher who sees what's going on in this day and time and to wait until we get older and he come up here talking about, "I want to join," I wouldn't trust them to be a chauffeur for us.
I'm going to let you go in a few minutes. Let me point out a few things in the scripture to show you how you are being robbed of real scriptural teachings. I'll start with Genesis. Genesis says, "Let there be light." The church won't tell you that that means, "Let there be knowledge in the heads of the people. Let the human society grow in knowledge."
They make you think it means spiritualism. It means knowledge, some sense in your head, that's the first commandment, "Let the brain grow in intelligence.
Let the head be lit with light," that's the first commandment because the head is the head, and if there's no light in the head what can we expect in the body? The head has to rule over the body, is that right?
The first commandment, "Let there be light. Let there be intelligence," do you know the church persecuted education, persecuted the educators? That’s what brought on the Renaissance, there was a movement of the church leadership, is that right? The Renaissance was a movement against church leadership. So, we wouldn't have this advanced science, we wouldn't have free education, public schools, if there hadn't been an uprising to overthrow church leadership. Do you understand that?
That's the clear fact in history that tells us that the church did not obey the first letter of the Bible, "Let there be light." They knew they were limited so they felt, "The only way to keep ourselves on the throne is to keep knowledge from the masses, from the majority." They told you, "You didn't need any schooling, don't worry about that. The bishop's son will get the schooling. The priest's son will get the schooling. You subjects stay in your places."
I believe that describes Christianity back in those days. If we got historians up here, if I go wrong, they can correct me. What else do we find? Coming up from Genesis now; Genesis says that there were two brothers. Tell us there's two brothers. Cain and Abel. Abel was killed by Cain. The church has been preaching this for I don't know how long. But how many of you know what that means? All you know is that it means that you shouldn't kill your brother, is that right? You didn't need G-d to tell you that.
Adam must know better than that. In fact, they don't even kill their own kind, they fight each other but most of animals won't kill their own kind. They kill another kind but not their own kind. So why G-d had to tell you don't kill your brother? You go in the jungle where church, religion and education, civilization has never been and you'll find people back there in the jungle you call primitive, they know in their heart not to kill their brother. And they don't kill their brother as much as do over here with all your Jesus Christ.
How many of you have really been taught what it means, for Cain not to kill Abel? What that means Cain to not kill Abel? And that if someone kills Cain for killing Abel his punishment will be sevenfold worse than Cain's punishment. This is the beginning of the Bible, you're a Christian and I don't care where you came from, how many can tell me what it means? I know what they're taught you. They've taught you nothing but Sunday school, kindergarten language. Alright, let’s come on up some more.
If you want me to tell you I can tell you, you don't have the time today but in time I'll tell you. And I challenge the pope to prove I'm wrong. If he can find anything in his Bible or his law or anything to condemn me other than the lies that they have added that I can easily dispel with a little truth so he will be disarmed right away. What he is left with to fight with if he can condemn me, I'll eat the whole Bible up dry with not a drop of water and I know that's a hard thing to do eat all that paper and cardboard.
Come on, up in the Bible now, we find that some people went to the city of Nod and took themselves wives from another people. And the book hadn't told us that there were any other people but the people that came from Adam and Eve. Where did these other people come from? Have you been taught that? Jehovah Witness, they tried to teach their people but most of you haven't been taught anything on that subject. All right, let's come on up a little further now. Sons and daughters came from Adam called Tubal Cain, Jubal Cain and daughters called Adah has the church told you anything about them?
They're very important in Genesis, they're very important, very important to Christianity, to anybody who believes in the Bible but they haven't taught you anything, have they? Even before that there's a snake in the garden and a forbidden tree and a fruit that you shouldn't eat. What is the forbidden fruit? When I was a boy most of the people thought it was sex, thought sex was the forbidden fruit. What is it? Anybody know in here what this forbidden fruit is? Did the church teach you?
An apple, somebody said an apple. You've been eating apples all your life, been a Christians eating apples all your lives. Now let's come up a little more. Moses being pursued by Pharaoh's army struck the water and the sea parted, the red sea parted and Moses and his people walked across on dry land. Have the preacher told you what that means? “Well, that's all it means that G-d had the power to produce that great miracle.” Well, you'll never convert intelligent people with just that, you need a little bit more than that.
We don't see any seas parting now. No matter how holy the people are, we don't see the sea opening up and a dry road made in the sea. We don't see things like that happening. Miraculous things take place but we haven't seen that one. I think if anything like that was possible, not that G-d can't do it but He has a better way of doing things than that. But if that was the way He does things, I'm sure that as long as we suffered and as much as we cried in the name of Jesus, holding fast to all that we have from the church and from the Bible that Almighty G-d would open up some dry path for us. Or would've produced something for us, a bridge or something for us to go up on and walk over America back into a better land.
And when the American Christians, the plantation owners pursued us on that bridge, he would collapse it. He could have been able to do that for us, right? I would think so. If he did that for the Hebrews that were in bondage and their bondage wasn't as cruel on them as ours was on us. Then it seems to me that as hard as our preachers preach in slavery and as much as we sing praise of G-d and called on Jesus then He would have produced a miracle similar to that one for us.
The church is satisfied with you eating the baby language, keeping your mind on a kindergarten level so they can continue to rule you and give you nothing of what G-d has promised in the book. Let's move on up now. Since that's such a powerful part of the scripture, so powerful that- who was that made it-- What was that producers name that made this movie? Cecil B. DeMille made the movie, The Ten Commandments and that was his prided peace the scene showing the separation of the water.
When iron is heated to a great degree it gets red. Pale people when they get angry, they get red. The ancient people used red to describe anger, for anger. Water means people. Ask your preacher, he'll tell you that in the Bible water means people. Red sea means angry people. Moses struck the water means he struck moral justice, he appealed to their moral conscience and when he appealed to their moral conscience, the angry people backed off and let Moses and his people walk through them.

He didn't strike the land. He struck the water. Those people who had moral conscience like they had, he appealed to them. And when he did it, Pharaoh's army said, "Let them go. We shouldn't keep them. Let them go." Pharaoh, he didn't like it. He sent his men out to pursue them. Right? And when he and his men went out, they were drowned in the water. What does that mean? That the people stopped them. Wouldn't let them pursue Moses and his people. When they came, the ranks closed in again and they wouldn't let Pharaoh and his army pursue Moses and his people.
Saying "Let those people go. We've agreed to let them go. Let them go." They rebelled against Pharaoh. That's what it means. It means the people rebelled against pharaoh and refused to obey his order after Moses appealed to their conscience. To their moral conscience. It's as simple as that. But if you're still in Kindergarten, you don't want to accept that. You like the painted picture, the fairy tale. The make believe, more than you like reality.
Now that's a message worthwhile. Isn't it? That's a message worth being in a book carried by grownups. If the message is only that G-d made the sea back up, that's not worthy for me to carry on under my arm. My baby, my four-year-old ought to be carrying that. But if G-d is saying to me that, "You should trust the moral conscience that exists in the people. It's there. If you don't have no other recourse, then appeal to their moral conscience and you will find that people as a majority are morally persuaded."
Isn't that a fact of life? People as a majority are morally persuaded. That's what the Book is telling us. And if you can't get any agreement by my ruler then appeal to the moral conscience of the public. You will find that there will be enough support in the moral conscience of the public to overthrow those wicked rulers. That's what the book is saying. 
And wicked rulers, they know this, brother and sister. That's why they deny the man who is right and just in the time when they have a critical grip on the masses. They deny the man who is right and just the opportunity to speak to the public. They kill him before they let him speaks to the public. Why? Because they know if he gets the opportunity to speak his speech open and clear to the public, he'll get enough support because G-d has not made human beings corrupt. He's made human beings to move when His Spirit touches them.

And Satan never has the majority. Satan always have a minority. We can move on up through the Bible relating to you these Sunday school fairy tales and show you the real social message that's in these stories and you'll see just how much you've been deprived of real knowledge, divine guidance by your leadership. Your church leadership. Now if you want to go back to them and let them entertain you, you just go on but I want you to know that you are worth nothing.
You are no good, you are not worth anything as a human being. If you are worth anything as a human being, you won't go back in that church and clown with them. You'll go into that church and you will try to tell them, "Look, you’ll have to change. There's a man in Chicago, on Stony Island, that have a much more powerful interpretation and presentation of this book than you have, reverend. You have to change." That's what you would do.
But no. If you care more about pork chops than you do about humanity, if you care more about a wine bottle than you do about humanity. You care more about your little petty weaknesses than you do about the whole humanity and G-d, you'll go back to that church and be entertained again and forget all about your visits to the temple. Well, if you do let me tell you, every time you look in the mirror, you'll remember that I said you're looking at nothing. As-salamu alaykum

















01/25/1976
IWDM Study Library
The Light of Truth Pt.4

By Imam W. Deen Mohammed


Maybe you won't even call them divine names, but when I give them to you, they'll become divine because they will fall in this divine plan.

We want to make them available, not only to us who follow these teachings, we want to make them available to all of our people. We are setting a deadline for wearing pass me downs, slave master trademarks. I like that word 'trademark' because that's what they were doing, they were trading us. I'll give you one nigga for three bowls of sugar. They did that.
I got a no count nigga here I'll give you for a bushel of corn. They did that, brothers and sisters. G-d's say, "Get rid of that name that was passed down to you from those slave masters." Christmas next year, 1977 is the deadline and if we here on New Year's Eve that the majority of our people have met that deadline, I will tell my community, our community to have Christmas dinner. We don't believe in the trinitarian doctrine, but I'll ask the believers to join you in a big Christmas dinner, 1977.
Because, it would really be a time for feasting and rejoicing. Next item under the heading number two, sisters in MWDC may sell Bilalian newspapers. All praises be to Allah. We use the word 'may' because we don't want the sister putting too much burden on them not with this anyway. This project and we don't want the sisters disgracing themselves. We don't want to see sisters standing on the corner asking somebody to buy a paper. Sisters, you don't know what these brothers have to put up with.
A thousand of our kind will pass by and look at the brother like he's crazy. We don't want you to be turned down once by anybody because we love and respect our women. Your throne is in the house. You may outside and perform many great jobs, but your throne is at home, and your children is the pride of the whole nation, especially when you do a good job bringing them up.
Believe me, they are the salvation of the nation. What you produced is going to be what we have to live on to tomorrow. Prophet Muhammad sees beyond him. He says that paradise is at the feet of the mother. Meaning that a woman all she has to do to earn paradise is do a good job raising those children who are at her feet. And if she can do a good job raising those children who pull on her apron string and hug on her leg while she trying to walk, stand, and do other things that she can bring them up, G-d will certainly give her paradise.

We don't want to rob a work that G-d has already seen will earn you paradise by forcing you to put your time into the streets selling Bilalian news. In your normal going about, if you meet people and can pass on a Bilalian news, please do so. Next item under heading number two, discontinuance of nation-saving program at national house. Now, you know we having national savings and many of you have a savings book. I put out the word a week or more ago now, telling all of you who have savings in this nation savings to be prepared to make withdrawal.
I've asked the secretary of the national savings to send out a letter to all those who have accounts. Asking them to let us know whether they would like to have their savings returned to them directly and they put them in a bank of their choice. Or have their savings transferred to Guarantee bank. Which is a legal establishment protected by law and your account backed up by federal government money. Am I correct?
Audience 1: Yes, sir.
IWDM: That's correct. That's required of all legal banks. You wouldn't have to worry about your savings there, and I hate to say you had to worry about them over here, but we did. In fact, all the savings were used up to meet expenses here at Temple #2. It was because there was no organization here, no business organization here, no budget, no control, not even any respect for the hard-earned contribution. A hangover from an ugly past. I can't condemn every official for what went on.
They came into it and they just followed what was accepted. Believe me, it was allowed, but now it's not allowed. It's a new day. I've accepted the responsibility because I feel I owe it. I came into the office of the honorable Elijah Muhammad. While he was in the office, he promised you that if you saved with the nation that he would not only return your money but return you a high interest on your money. I've given the secretary the go to return your principal; that is the amount of money that you've been saving. We can't return it unless you send in a request yourself with your own signature. You should send your book in.
If you don't have your book, you've lost it, you're going to have to send to write in the request with your own signature and proper identification. If you do that, you can get the principal. What about the interest? Well, if you were not Muslim, I would tell you the interest is coming with the principal, but since you're Muslim, I'm sure that you can wait until we get in a little better position to return your interest. We are fastly recovering now. I believe in a few weeks we'll be able to send your interest.
Whatever interest that you are due, we are obligated to give it to you because it's your money. It was promised to you, it's your money. We have to give you that interest. But as Muslims, I think that you should be willing to wait until the propagation funds got in a little better position. Believe me, if I was a crooked person, it would be pitiful. Because Allah has showed me that to be a crook is really against yourself. I have chosen not to be a crook. You didn't have much protection. In fact, we had no legal authority to set up such a department. So, if we wanted to ignore it altogether, you'll be in trouble.
If the Honorable Elijah Muhammad was here, I’m telling you I'm going to tell you what he would tell you, “when you say with the nation, as a Muslim, you should be willing to give to the nation, and the nation needs this now”. And that would be it and you good believers out there, you would accept it. I'm talking about the first generation. If he said, "Well, we need this money to save the nation." The first-generation savers, they would have no grumble. But now that I'm in office, they want every cent. They argue over a half of penny some of them.
“Who it goes to? That should go to me.” Well, we're going to free you by giving you what you due. Then we want you to get the hell away from us. Now to heading three, temples to become mosque. You know, in the beginning, the temples were called temples, then Honorable Elijah Muhammad changed it to mosque? And in the Bible, it says, "My house shall be called a house of prayer." And Prophet Muhammad, he named the places of worship, masjids, and the French spelling of masjid is mosque. I think we should go back to calling our places of worship mosque. So, we can continue to move on the road towards the destination that we are headed for. I'm asking you now to get away from the habit of referring to the places of worship as temple and go back to calling it mosque.
Universities of Islam will now be called elementary and secondary schools. I know it hurt to call something elementary and secondary school that used to be called University of Islam. It hurts but it's in line with what we're all about, it's in line with what we must do and we have to do it. We don't want to pretend and lie to the world. If it's an elementary school, it should be called what it is. An elementary school is not a university; it's not a college. If it's a high school, a secondary school, it should be called that; it shouldn't be called a college or a university.
Al-Islam is universal. The supreme wisdom in Al-Islam is over a college. We can't call these lessons, this education that they're getting in our schools’ university and college education. When you know that most of the students that leave here can't even pass the test to get into a decent college or a university.

I'm not criticizing to be criticizing. I'm criticizing to point out our weaknesses so we can get away from it. That should tell us something, brothers and sisters, the reason why our schools haven't been real schools is because we haven't really put a real name on it. We have a false name on them so it creates a false atmosphere. We think that all that we need is a name. Don't you know we've had some teachers that thought that all they needed was to recite the Actual Facts, the Student enrollment? And that that was good enough let the children go home and get ready to go out there and get a job as a bank teller, an accountant, or something; they're lost, bookkeeper, nothing. They even read a test, less more do it, can't read it.
All right, we know the condition out there in the world; we don't want that condition here. We know those schools out there called public schools. We know most of them are nothing but shams. We want no sham here we want the real thing.
The directors of education, directress of education, minister, pass the word we're changing the name to elementary and secondary schools, Sister Clara Muhammad Elementary and Secondary Schools.

I don't know how many of you know Sister Clara Muhammad’s part in the struggle for open schools for us, to keep the schools open for us. But I’ll tell you quickly, if it wasn't for her, we wouldn't have had schools. The school authorities and the police came to our house. I was a very small boy. They told my mother if she didn't put her children in public school that they were going to put her in jail. My mother began to tremble at her face with anger. Her lips and the jaws were trembling. She shook her face and held finger in the officer face. She said, "Before I give my children to you, I see them and myself dead."
They got the hell away from the door and never bothered us again.

Now I'm not asking you, I'm doing it. Sister Clara Muhammad's name is going on the schools of Islam, that formerly were called University of Islam.

All praises to Allah, all praises to Allah. This is heading number four we're working with now. Muhammad's Temple #2 will carry the name of Honorable Elijah Muhammad's Mosque #2.

This is the man his name that I'm about to introduce to you. I better say a little something about him because I think most of you don't know him.
In #1 they should, especially the old member. Some of you right here would know him. There was the blood brother of the Honorable Elijah Muhammad who took over the temple in Detroit when the Honorable Elijah Muhammad was thrown out of Detroit or chased out of Detroit. His name was Willy Mohammed, but he was given the name Wali Muhammad. He was a kind and loving man, a tender-hearted man. He struggled hard there in Detroit against all kinds of odds and it finally got the best of him. He died of worrying ulcer that developed into stomach cancer.
I remember him, as a child, I remember him. And I still remember his face and the way he carried himself. He was one of the sweetest persons I remember from my childhood. He never complained. When he would come to my father, you in the family you might be surprised that I remember this, but I remember him telling my father about things in Detroit. My father would have to pick to get him to tell him what was bothering him. He didn't want to bring my father the bad news, he suffered it and kept his mouth, held his mouth. My father would have to pick it out of him.
He was a very beautiful man and I was thinking about him, but the man is gone, been gone a long time now. But Temple #1 should bear his name because he was the one who kept it there.

Temple #1 Detroit, Michigan brothers and sisters, you hear me out there and I'm proud of the work that you've done and the unity that you've kept there and the progress you've kept. I hear that last Sunday, you had a great meeting and I pray today you're having a great meeting. In fact, I've already heard that you have over a thousand people out there today in Detroit. Keep your heads up and keep moving forward. You'll be known as Wali Muhammad Mosque #1.
Sales and office building will be known as Nation of Islam’s Pioneers building.

It will carry the name of our outstanding pioneers written in gold on a plaque.

It will be displayed right in the main entrance so everybody that comes in can see it. Salaam restaurant will be closed as a restaurant and will be used as a cultural center.

The name will be Salaam Cultural Center.

I have to introduce the next outstanding brother to you, the next outstanding pioneer. Peace be on him. This brother, he was a second father to us but not only to us. He felt it was his duty to look out after the children of Honorable Elijah Muhammad while he was away in jail and on the road running from enemies. But this brother I'm about to introduce to you now, he also cared about all Muslims. He would go and visit any Muslim that needed his help or was in trouble. I don't think you could find a better person. I've seen him as an old man pulling pushcart that looked like a small truck with rope. Heavy rope throughout his teeth pulling it through the street, pulled it through snow. He took the pennies he got off a job that he sold and gave him the help, the weak in our community.
I wish we had people like that now. We're going to have them, they're coming, in fact, they're here right now.

He was another brother that never made trouble, never complained, but he stood up for truth, stood up for freedom, justice, and equality. When my father was away for how long, I know some of you don't like to hear me say father all the time but that's what I called him more when I called him anything else. And now that he's not here with us in his office, I remember him as father. You remember how many years Brother Bahar and mama was running the temple? Minister James would know too.
Almost 12 years, sister Clara Muhammad, know about this, maybe so. For 12 years, maybe more the supreme Captain say longer but I know 12 years. Sister Clara Muhammad, my mother, Brother Ephraim Bahar, and a few other outstanding pioneers some of them right here now. Sister Viola Kareem, and there are others among us, Brother Lester. Minister Lester, where are you? Stand up. Is he here? He usually be out. He still goes out teaching. He goes everywhere and he is up in age too, but you can't tell it, man still on the job. Minister Lester and there are many, in fact, all of those old pioneers nobody was sitting down all of us work together as one family for life. We worked like we were working for our life and we were.
Let all the pioneers stand up who've been with us for over 30 years. Stand up.

All praises to Allah.

Thank you. How many of you remember Brother Ephraim Bahar? Stand up. Those who remember Brother Ephraim Bahar. Look around, look around and see those who remember Brother Ephraim Bahar, that means they've been around here some time. All praises due to Allah.

Brother Ephraim Bahar, I've talked with him, he's talked to me, he's used give me fruit and candy. Believe me, we were so hungry sometimes that that fruit and candy almost turned out to be the meal for that day. I remember seeing him myself bringing groceries green. Bring greens to the house.
That's the love that we had in those days. He knew we needed help, he brought greens and stuff. People back there they didn't have a lot of money to pay rent and life and buy a lot of fancy clothes and cars. We didn't have money for that. I don't know how long it was before we had a car. I went with my mother and caught the big red and it would red then. I’m talking about streetcars. Some of you don't even know what I'm talking about. Mother went to stores in different places he had to go on a streetcar.
There wasn't many Muslims in the temple that had any cars, just a very few that had cars. We went on streetcars, me and my mother and when she didn't take me, she would take some of the others. All of us went with her, except me and my mother.
I don't mean that I'm the only one who's been around. All the children went around with her, but I remember her taking me around with her in streetcar, that's what it was. Her and Brother Ephraim Bahar. He worked as private secretary of Honorable Elijah Muhammad, protecting his whereabouts, never letting out secrets. You might not understand this, but believe me, there was one person that you could let your secret out to. And it was the one that you would think that she shouldn't ever let it out to.
Tell me who he let the secret out to? Me, and I was the smallest one in the house. I'm the only one that would know. My sister over there tell them what you did to make me tell you the secret. Come on sister Ethel Mohammed. Some pie, lemon pie. I love lemon pie. Chocolate pie that's what it was. Now we got it, chocolate pie. I loved that pie too. I love both chocolate and lemon. You know how kids are they love that soft sweet stuff, chocolate custard. She told me she'd give me some if I told him where me and mama went. Did I tell you? Did I tell you where we went? No, indeed.

We went to see Honorable Elijah Muhammad but I never told. Couldn't have got it out of me if they killed me. My mother never threatened me, she never said if you tell I'll whip you, never. She just told me, "Don't tell anybody," and that was it. Police couldn't have got it out of me. No, I didn't get the pie.

There is a new club, this new piece of property we have bought and it's ours now, the people are out. Right now, we are over there ourselves protecting the property and getting ready to get it cleaned up. We are asking the brothers to volunteer so we can save money. We usually didn't hire people outside to do everything for us. We used to do more for ourselves and paid ourselves money, enjoyed the spirit of working together, and doing things for ourselves. We want to see that spirit coming back. We want the brothers to volunteer, pitch in, and whatever time you can give, give to put that resident club in shape because convention day is February 29th. We want it looking beautiful and ready and open so people can go in and see what we got there.
We got two blocks of property now. It stretches all the way over there. Allah blessed us. We want to get the resident club ready and when it gets ready, we want Ephraim Bahar to be shinning on it.

It will be called Ephraim Bahar Community Center. All praises due to Allah. Muhammad's Temple #3 Milwaukee, Wisconsin. I don't know if many of you remember, but there was a minister who put it on the map. I understand the honorable Elijah Muhammad really opened the temple there, and Master Fard himself I believe visited there. The one who put it on the map was Minister Sultan Mahmud. 
He was a big, brown, powerful looking minister. He looked like light skinned-- what's his name? Jack Johnson. And he would stand up across the room and let me tell you he would let the people know he was not there for play. Sometimes they get up and register, they be shaking a little bit, but they'd register. He said, "I don't have any slave names. My name is Sultan Mahmud."

How many pioneers here remember Brother Minister Sultan? Will you stand? Stand up those who remember Brother Minister Sultan. All praises due to Allah. Very good. Quite a number here remember him, and that's been some time ago he passed. May peace be on him and on all of our great pioneers who passed from us. Well, Temple #3 will be known as Sultan Muhammad's Mosque #3.

Well, I don't know whether you are ready for this one or not. But If you are not ready, you can be angry with me, and I'll put up with you if you can out up with me until you get ready. Malcolm Shabazz put number seven on the map. All praise be to Allah.

He put number seven on the map. They tell me in the judgment, you'll get credit for what you've done and you'll be punished for what you haven't done. I'm not here to punish anybody that had passed away, but I have to recognize what they have done. Temple #7 will be known as Malcolm Shabazz Mosque #7.

We're beginning Friday prayer. This Friday at 1:00 PM, we will have Friday prayer here at headquarter. On the locations they are as follows: Muhammad's Mosque #2, Nation of Islam Pioneer's Building, that's the sales and office building that has now been renamed, and Bilalian News Building. On these three locations, we'll have Friday prayer and service. As you know, it is standard throughout the Muslim world to have service and prayer on Friday. And the Honorable Elijah Muhammad has been moving us in this direction and now it's time for me to officially announce that we are having Friday prayer. Jumu'ah prayer they call it, group prayer.

Those who are able to attend, you should attend. You shouldn't put up petty excuses. Let me tell you something. Honorable Elijah Muhammad, peace be on him, he was questioned and condemned by some. I'm talking about so-called orthodox Islam for not having Jumu’ah prayer. Let me tell you something, that's a secret because you just don't know what's going on and haven't been around. They have mosque right here in Chicago, go to their Jumu’ah prayer. I want to tell them and the world that when we start Jumu’ah prayer, we will have Jumu’ah prayer.

And our Jumu’ah prayer will look like it's alive. It won't look like it's dead and somebody just coming up every now and then to look at the dead structure. It's a shame, it's a pitiful. I went to the mosque in Gary for Jumu’ah prayer, couldn’t hardly get in. One time I couldn't get in, nobody even opened the door.
It's not funny. One time I got in a brother who was there, the Imam, he was happy to see us, but he was unprepared. Finally, he got himself together, it looked like he hadn't been sleeping at Jumu’ah time. I'm not joking. Jumu’ah time is afternoon. On Friday, the noon prayer is omitted and Jumu’ah prayer is said. It means group prayer, Jumu’ah means group prayer, congregational prayer, group prayer. He finally got his head halfway straight and became aware of why I was there. He asked his wife and children and tried to get something together so we can have Jumu’ah. Nobody coming. This is the headquarter in Gary, biggest mosque they have in this vicinity in this area here, to my knowledge. Do they have a big one? I don't think so. Gary here is the biggest. Friday prayer no prayer.
How can people like point a finger at the Honorable Elijah Muhammad who was dealing with a people who just came out of the church, just same off of a skid row, just came out of dope dens, just came out of jail, have been deprived of all kind of knowledge? How can they point a finger at him and say, "Your people are not doing what even they weren't doing?" They should be ashamed of themselves.
To tell you the truth, I've been wanting to start Jumu’ah prayer. As soon as I took this position, I wanted to now we should start Jumu’ah prayer. But I took things slow because I wanted some of them to stand up and tell me what they could tell an Honorable Elijah Muhammad as well. "You don't have Jumu’ah prayer" and I'm going to tell them to go to hell.

Tell them, "You don't have anything”. We have a strong group of people who are ready to make great sacrifices for Allah in truth. We're going to have Jumu’ah prayers and we're going to put the mosque back on earth. We have brother Daniel Kareem who was trained to lead the prayer. I hope he can still do it. I'd like to see him before he does it Friday to make sure he can do it. He's never led Friday prayer, but I think I can get with him for a little while and he can get it together. Friday prayers is only two raka’as. But it is done also with two speeches, small speeches, that only about 5, 10 minutes, 15 minutes. You can go half an hour if you want to but two small speeches.
They usually done in about 10 minutes each, sometimes it's about half an hour. They call it 
khutbah or speech. One is exalting Allah and the other one is addressing community needs. Addressing community needs, building the spirit of the people to move as one community to solve the problems that we have. The speech is in two parts like that.
You see how well-balanced Al-Islam is? In the church, they just go all one way all the time, but we have two speeches. The Friday prayer, the congregational prayer you must give two speeches. You must glorify Allah to get the power that we need because Allah is our strength. But you also must address the community needs. This is standard traditional started by Muhammad of Arabia. I would say instituted, established by him, instituted by him but it was preached by every prophet. Every true prophet did these things. Maybe not exactly as he did it, but they tended to these needs. Prophet Muhammad may peace be on him, he organized and established these institutions, worship.
Saviours’ day convention is as you know the 29th of February, this is our last fourth Sunday until the convention day. As I told you, whenever I'm here, if I'm not out of town somewhere else, I'll be coming out on Sundays. We'll have our regular speakers, but I'll also be here on Sundays. I hope next Sunday, I can preach, teach the mission, the truth, without having to go into extra business. And get back on the job of shedding the light of Islam and truth because I feel that that's neglected sometimes.
There is much I have to say to you, I haven't had time to get around with some of it because of other problems. Now, brothers and sisters, I'd like to leave you with words from the Holy Quran. Words that were put in the Holy Quran as a warning to the Arabs and the early Muslims that join Prophet Muhammad. May peace be on him.
In the Holy Quran, it says, “that if Allah chooses, He can take His favor off one people and put it on another. And that the people who are favored by Allah will only keep his favor for as long as they obey Him, fear and worship and obey Him and do the job.” In the Holy Quran, the words came calling for a community to rise up, a special community to rise up out of the general community. A people who would be examples, dedicated, out in the front, leaders of the society to assure the society that there would always be true representation of Al-Islam.
It says, "Let there arise out of you a society." Some translators translate it "a nation." "Calling to all that is established as good and denouncing all that has been proven to be harmful and indecent. They will be the successful ones." This is in the Holy Quran, "Let there rise up from you a band of people, a society, a group of people that will call the people to all that is good and denounce openly all that is wrong, that has been established as harmful, and indecent for the society." It says, "They will be the successful ones." Did the Arab meet that requisition? Did they fulfill that requisition?
Congregation: No.
IWDM: They will admit they failed. They have not stood up boldly and called the people to all that is good and denounce all that is bad. Look how long we were over here in bondage. Did we hear their voice?
Congregation: No, never.
IWDM: We passed by them in the street. How many of them grabbed our hand and said, "Brother, I'll walk with you. Sister, I'll walk with you." How many of them said, "Let us help you get back on the road. Let us help you up out of your pitiful state of condition?" We bought groceries from some of them. We bought dry goods from some of them. They would hardly let us know that they were Muslims. I'm talking about what I know. I grew up here in this city. Look how corrupt the world became, but who stood out front and denounced the evils? The honorable Elijah Muhammad. Communist, socialist governments, oppressed people, they stood up for what is a great church, a great mosque. What did they do? They kept quiet until they were forced to come out and say something. All right. The Arabs failed this. A few of them struggled, but most of them failed. As a whole, they failed. They can't show us a community that fulfills this. All right. What else is written in the Holy Quran about this? It says, "Let there be a people, Muslims, hard against the oppressors, the persecutors, the corrupters, but soft with believers." Has anybody fulfilled this requisition?
Congregation: No.
IWDM: No, indeed. Have we seen Muslims standing out, moving strongly and a force against the oppressor, the corrupters of society?
Audience 4: No.
IWDM: Have we seen Muslims calling in and like a mother hen. She let down her wings and she bring her bitties in when they need protection. When the weather gets bad, or when danger's around. This is the kind of care and concern that the Holy Quran says the people must have who are going to lead. How many lowered their wings down and told the weak to come under their shelter? All right. I'm saying to you because you are the ones that this is addressed to now. The rest have failed.
Almighty G-d and the Holy Quran is speaking to this community now. Let there arise out of you a society calling to all that is established as good and denouncing all that has been proven to be harmful and indecent. They will be the successful ones. I leave you with these words. Giving you the greetings of peace and hoping to be with you again very soon. As Salam Alaikum.


