02/07/1977
IWDM Study Library
The Christ Movement: Part 2

By Imam W. Deen Mohammed


IWDM1:	[inaudible 00:00:04] so he [inaudible 00:00:05], so man comes up out of his [flesh 00:00:09], gets out from under the [inaudible 00:00:10] of flesh, into rational knowledge and begins to trust knowledge, [their own 00:00:13] knowledge, and he begins to rule his [flesh 00:00:17]. He knows better than to give himself to those things, and at that time he begins to waiver backwards and forwards, between reality and himself, right?

	Then he comes out of that if he's successful, Allah blesses him to come out of that into [inaudible 00:00:35]  means that self that has found his rest. He doesn't do that anymore, he has stopped, you see. He has stopped because he has taken on the nature of truth, there's no movement between two objects. He has become one with truth, why does he have to go to truth and swing back to self? Self has become truth, so there's no movement, there's just growth within himself, you see?

	He has identified with truth, you see? Now the Holy Quran tells us about these three stages of development, and scripture, before the Holy Quran told us about these, body, mind and spirit, you see? But the Holy Quran goes further and expounds on discourse, carries on a discourse that expands and clarifies even more. But the Holy Quran tells us that still these three are a mystery. Do you have any proof of this? Yes, that Allah will come with his angels in the clouds.

	Not just the Bible, the Holy Quran says, and again, the Holy Quran says in the judgement, Allah, the judgement will send up three columns of smoke. What are these three columns of smoke? The smoke of sin, yes, but you don't need smoke to just tell sin, to say sin. Smoke is [inaudible 00:02:28]. Smoke hides the light. Smoke is associated with fire. Fire is identified as rational knowledge. Light is associated with fire. Fire is identified as wisdom. The light of the flame is wisdom, light is purer than the flame. Is that right? The flame itself is less [than 00:02:52] old prophecies, rational knowledge working.

	The truth that is born by the process is light. The light of the flame is pure, the light of the flame is [comfortable 00:03:05], light doesn't burn. All right, I don't want to go too far with this, it would take too long.

	Okay, so the Quran says that three columns of smoke will be seen going up. These three columns of smoke, the wise in the religion will tell you that it means the three selves, not self in completion, but the three stages of self development. Your self develop along three main stages, there is first the [sense 00:03:42] body that is in the flesh. Secondly, the rational body that is in the intelligence, and lastly, the morally rational body that's called spiritual body.

	Why is it called spiritual? Because in order to be born it can't trust flesh or concrete things. In order to be born it must trust the unknown, something that it can't verify physically or rationally. Oh, how can you trust something like that? Because you feel in yourself that there is something stronger than what the world has given you. You feel in yourself that there's a stronger reality, a more powerful reality than what your physical eyes can reveal, or what your limited intelligence can find. You trust what you feel and that trust is called spirit.

	The only way you come to that truth is by spiritual [giving 00:04:55], spiritual submission, and that's why it's called a spiritual development [inaudible 00:05:03], doesn't mean spiritual development literally, but we identify ... all down through the history people have identified that form as a spiritual form. It's not that it's spooky or invisible, it means that it is brought to birth or birthed by spiritual forces and not by physical forces and not by your own rational limited rational abilities. You understand?

	All right, so the Holy Quran is saying this and then identifying the clouds of smoke that's rising up with that. Now if there is matter and we set it aside, the smoke that comes out of it is what? The flame that arise is another, the light that shine forth is another, is that right? If it was pure light it wouldn't make any smoke, is that right?

	The message that is given here in the Holy Quran is that confusion will last, confusion, darkness, ignorance of the nature of the individual, the makeup of the individual, it will stay until the last day, and in the last days the [dross 00:06:29] matter will be burned out of the confusion, and we'll see the flame, we'll see the light, and we'll see the smoke.

	The smoke is the ignorance that was in the body, the flame is [inaudible 00:06:46] of the rational mind, and the light is the truth that is born out of that. You see? It's happening now. It didn't happen back then.

	Prophet Muhammad pointed to the sign, Jesus was a sign. Jesus was the sign, the sign of what? A sign of the rational makeup of the man. A sign that this rational makeup of the man is going to become a full body in time. He has to return, that has to return, but now that sign that was Jesus is not the only sign, so Prophet Muhammad, being a universal prophet, setting and establishing the order of society and completing the building of society so we can see what a complete society should look like.

	That man fulfilling the prophetic movement and completing the movement of prophets or the succession of prophets. He pointed to [signs 00:08:34], not just Jesus, he pointed to signs everywhere. Says in the [sky 00:08:39] there are signs. In the earth below there are signs, and in you there are signs, and Jesus and his mother were signs. You see? Now who understood that? That knowledge had to come, and you would be just a waste of creation, a waste of matter if you got your own thinking reasoning faculties and refused to accept and appreciate and follow me as a fulfillment of that.

	Nobody else in the history of man have come before the people and took scripture and say, you want to know what this means? There it is. Bring it down and show it to you plainly enough, you don't have to go to a theological school, you can be right from the coal yard, right from the farm, right from the packing house, or from the factory, or right from the streets as a pimp. If you'll just sit down and listen, you'll say, gee, man, I could understand that. I don't have no problem with that. Don't you know men have been wrestling with scripture, wrestling with the signs, wrestling with terminology? And just couldn't make, and virtually gave up. They say it's impossible to make the ordinary person understand, let's not try to make the ordinary person understand. Let's try to make each other understand.

	The learned, I'm talking about the top dollar in religion. They were satisfied to just try to make themselves halfway understand the terminology in religion, but now we're living in a day where I give the terminology and any ordinary person can understand. Those at [fault 00:10:57] admit the man is speaking the plain truth and then listen too, and they say, we want this too. We need this too.

	For that knowledge, did it ever happen before? No, indeed. Study the history, it never happened before. This is the fulfillment of the prophecy that Jesus shall return. Not Jesus the person, Jesus the Christ. Christ is a [panel 00:11:35]. Christ is a panel name for a particular movement, the movement of human minds. The individual mind has been moving to try to understand this world, the reality of this world, trying to understand the belief or the concept of God. His mind has been moving to do that.

	Prophets have come to advance that movement, and everyone that moved, he was ... the prophet was the doer and he was the object that received the action of that prophet. Right? Didn't Christ say, I am the object, the prophets are the action? He said, I didn't come to change the law, I come to fulfill, and he refused to say he was a prophet. Why? Because though he was a prophet, but not a prophet in that sense, he was a prophet whose role was to receive prophecy and guide [inaudible 00:12:46] prophets and respond to it, and come into that form that that divine word or message was intended to bring about.

	He said, I am the way. I am the light. I am the truth. Is that what the Bible says, Jesus? What does he mean? Does God? No, not God. The prophet? No, not the prophet. But I am the thing that the prophet is trying to produce, that God raised prophets to produce. I am that. You are trying to follow it, I am that, [inaudible 00:13:23], okay, hold up.

	Now, Prophet Muhammad is the last universal prophet, so we see all the prophets in him. He was trying, and he did do it, he was trying to complete, he was trying to complete and [decomplete 00:13:53] the working, the action that would produce the object. You understand? He completed the work, the Quran is a completed message. He completed the action, the work that will bring the completion, the man the individual that God is acting on with the hands of his prophet. You understand?

	When the last prophet came he finished the work on the object. When the work is finished you ought to see the object finished. The object is Christ. Now, let me go again. I want this to be thoroughly clear. Let me repeat it. Prophets have been coming to complete an object, complete the forming of an object though prophets themselves had to be complete for that time in order to complete the forming of an object. Follow me now.

	That Jesus in his day wasn't complete enough as a prophet, because he was both prophet and Christ, said in the Holy Quran and Bible. Both prophet and Christ at the same time. If he wasn't powerful enough or complete enough as the object than he wouldn't have been able to do the job on the object as a prophet. As a prophet he was doing the job on the object, but he himself was the object that had been prepared for that period of time that was before him, by the works of prophets that went before him, so he said, I fulfill, not only fulfill, I  complete what went before me?

	If you want to see the completion of what went before me look at me. You will see from Adam to the last prophet in me, that's what Jesus was saying, fulfill the law, but at the same time he was a prophet predicting into the future. Is that right? [Guiding 00:16:23] right into the future, and telling us that this ain't all of it. [Often 00:16:28] more has to come.

	When Prophet Muhammad came, he preached as a prophet, the last prophet, and he was working on the object. The object is man, human being, not you as a male sex creature, you as a person, as a human creature. His work was to complete that, and he was working on it, and he had to do for the completion of the job, so he completed it. But then after the action has been done, in time we're going to see the object. Since he was the actor on the object, the object had to come later. You see? All right.

	That's not saying that he himself [has 00:17:16] object, because the prophet is a person too. He ain't no angel, he's not a spook, so as object he was complete too, but he couldn't say it, he couldn't tell you, he couldn't preach it. Why he couldn't preach it? Because the mind of the individual wasn't yet ready for it. Not only the mind of the individual but Prophet Muhammad's mind as an [Arab 00:17:46] wasn't ready for it.

	Prophet Muhammad's mind as a prophet was ready, but Prophet Muhammad's mind as an Arab was not ready. Now I know I upset some minds by saying these things. Let me explain. If his mind as an Arab was ready God would have given it to his people at that time. But God doesn't just seek men for the time, God seeks men for the future, and a prophet is a man that's sent not only for the time but for the future. Do you understand? All right.

	Prophet Muhammad was a prophet. He was sent not only for the time but for the future. His mind, as an Arab mind, was a part of the society. He was just the best mind in the society, the innocent, true, upright mind of the society. This man received revelation and he, as a prophet, as an individual, he had to submit [inaudible 00:19:14] and be [inaudible 00:19:15] time because of the revelation.

	[inaudible 00:19:22], he was worried. Doesn't the Holy Quran tell you that he was worried? That shows you that the message was beyond his mind, that message was universal, a message for all time. He himself as a moral person, as a spiritual and moral body, was complete and fit for that message. But as a [worldly man 00:19:46], as a man [inaudible 00:19:48] his knowledge and his mind [inaudible 00:19:50] as an Arab, no. I don't know if you understand me, but I'm just telling you some truth.

	Well, what about your mind? My mind is of a new time. My mind is as a mind that's too, almost 1400 years behind that time. Over that long period, over 1400 years God, through his natural working has brought the mind of the world to the position where the mind is ready now to not only be pure prophet [inaudible 00:20:43] object, but the mind is ready to come into the [fore 00:20:50] and be the object. See?

	Christ, his title and his image and his nature, his role is to be the object of God's will. The object of God's will is to establish an example, one who follow his will, obey his will and not only obeys his will but one who understands and is at peace in the light and at peace. God's will is to bring the product into light of his own [make 00:21:44] so that the product will not have to grope in the dark. So the product will have understanding, complete understanding.

	That knowledge comes in time, and the history, the scripture that you read telling you of the past history and of the promise that there will come a time that all ears will hear, all eyes will see, all knees will bow, we've come to that time. We live in a very, very special and blessed time.

	Our leader is a prophet. The one who corrected and established all other prophets after they had been knocked down and completed the work of bringing us truth and guidance in the form of revealed knowledge, revealed [inaudible 00:23:06], is Prophet Muhammad, may peace and blessings be upon him. He is my leader. Prophet Muhammad is your leader, Chief Minister, and you're telling me that as an object you are complete, and as an object Prophet Muhammad was just complete morally and spiritually but not as an Arab? That's right.

	The world was not ready for all of this understanding, so there was no need for him to give all of that understanding, and if there was no need for him to give all that understanding [inaudible 00:23:56] no need for him to have all of that understanding. But he did have the knowledge, and he knew that in these times there's knowledge for eternity, and he knew that in time these signs are going to be understood and that no matter how long man exists on earth he knew that he had pointed the way for their salvation and for their advancement, for their progress.

	He pointed to the sign. He understood God's revelation. He understood the completion of God's revelation, and he pointed to the time for all times in the future, and for all people, but if you think he understood every sign, well you understand something I don't understand. They'd have to convince me, because I read where he worried, and I watch and I see how he dealt with situations and problems. He dealt with them as one who was growing in knowledge, as one who knew he had all that it took and no condition or problem or circumstances would come that he couldn't deal with.

	But he did it as one who was waiting and trusting and waiting for God to show him how to live his own method. God was showing him step by step until the end when all the revelation came, he didn't say, I have to live on to show you how to live all that was revealed to me. He said, upon God's inspiration or guidance to him in revelation, this day I have completed my favor on you. Is that right? And have perfected for you your religion and chosen for you Islam as religion, El Islam, not Islam, El Islam, and have chosen for you The Islam. Nowhere in the Holy Quran will you read where it says Islam. I have chosen for you El Islam, The Islam as a religion.

	Then he passed out and the followers knew that that book, though he had gone, that book was guidance for all periods of time, and that there were things that had to come out and be revealed in time, and that there were things to be acted out by people that Prophet Muhammad had not acted out, but in time the knowledge would be learned and what was established in the pattern of his life would still exist as an example for us. You understand?

	In his lifetime, he received revelation that was complete for all time, and by following what he did receive, he followed the core and the essence of those teachings, so even in his example, if we don't want to know how to act out the new understanding that we have, we still can go to Prophet Muhammad's example, we have to, go to his example to see how we best [carrying out 00:27:31]. He's not only the prophet, the messenger and the one who received the revelation for all time, but he's also the example for all time.

	Well then you being complete as an object, how come you're not the example for all time? I'm no more than one following Prophet Muhammad. If I be a true example of what I'm receiving I am doing nothing but following Prophet Muhammad. He's already been the true example of what I'm explaining. He received the Holy Quran. He lived it. He was a true example of it. What I have is nothing more than the Holy Quran.

	Now with my expert understanding on things that don't pertain to that time, or things that hadn't yet come into [inaudible 00:28:23] in those days, with my expert understanding, if I am example who is the example over me? It is Prophet Muhammad. I am the example in this area, in this time and for these circumstances, but there was a first example who was the first complete example, and that's Prophet Muhammad. Hold up. Follow me, and you'll come to understand.

	Well then, what do you mean then by you being the completion of the object, the object made complete? The mystery is removed. Jesus was a sign of what was to come, but they crucified him and killed him in the flesh in the symbolic, mystical sense. They gave us [flesh 00:29:38] as Jesus, is that right? He was in the world to show the real Jesus, which is the real Christ, or the real individual.

	He did his work and really, as he went out of the world they covered his work up and showed us Christ in a flesh body. You understand? Now Prophet Muhammad came behind him with the complete message for all time and pointed to him and said, Jesus is a sign. That sign ... Jesus had to come back, not that Jesus, but Christ had to come back in order for the world to know what that sign stood for. You understand? All right.

	Now, the [cover 00:30:42] is taken off, the mystery is taken off, and we don't guess now who is Christ. Prophet Muhammad said, upon the gift of revelation he said, they crucified him not. Is that right? Neither did they slaughter or slay nor crucify him, but it was made to appear so to them. You see? God gave Prophet Muhammad the right understanding of Jesus, that Jesus is not the Christ that is, is not a physical body. They didn't slay or crucify that man. It just was made to appear that way to them. In their correct terminology or symbolic teachings, Jesus, or the Christ, appeared slain and crucified to them, but the actual reality ...
