05/25/1976
IWDM Study Library 
First 4th Sunday Pt.2

By Imam W. Deen Mohammed
That knowledge is limited. If we are not careful, this knowledge would suggest to us that the heaven is a heaven of forces. By heaven, we mean the superior form, the best form, the most powerful form for human beings. It will suggest to us that that best form is a form of forces. That kind of mind produces what we call the Devil. You won't find any other devil than this. Devil means someone who sees a creation with his mind, and when he interprets what he sees, he comes up with nothing but forces. That's a Devil. And he discovered forces to be the highest thing in creation. Then he built his world on the strength of forces. The people on the lower level, ignorant people, he creates for them forces that will hold them down.
Black people really love and hunger for food. You got some people that can't rise up because they just eat too much. They make $100 a week and spend $75 on pork chops, beans, back fat, chitlins, and a whole lot of mess. They eat all day long. They wake up and the first thing they reach for is not the toothbrush, a piece of pork, a whole bone that was left over, and start gnawing on that. Right? Now, there are some people that are held down by a hoggish appetite. You, see? For food. So, the Devil, he knows this, and he encourages it. He encourages people to eat a lot. You just eat, eat, eat. In your neighborhood, you'll find more food than in any neighborhood you could think of. Don't believe it? Go outside your neighborhood and look.
If you go outside your neighborhood to other stores and you'll see the food is all stacked up neatly, the store is neatly arranged, the meat is laid out there neatly. You can see all the meat. When you come to your store, the meat is all piled up like a dump truck put it into place. You didn't care. You just eat a lot.
Coming up, you were encouraged to eat a lot, eat a lot. This is one of the means that they use to destroy you brother and sister. So, when The Honorable Elijah Muhammad received his instructions from Master Fard Muhammad telling him to eat one meal a day, he received wise instruction. Our people were eating themselves to death. So, someone had to tell them to slow up, so they'd have a chance to live.
Now, there's other understanding in there too, brother and sister. One meal a day mean that one day, I'm giving you now the symbolic translation. It means that if we practice one meal, know that our minds will be conditioned to accept One G-d, whereas before, we fed ourselves from the three G-ds: Father, Son, and Holy Ghost. So, he gave us one meal to condition our mind to accept to eat only from One G-d. Eat His words. Eat His nature, and eat His instructions, and that alone.
Then, we have also, the Devil creating other forces for us. He creates the forces of sex appetite. He'll put the sex attraction, on your food, on your automobile when you want to buy it, anything that he can think of to fail you. He will use sex to excite you to buy it. You think Black people bring out their songs? Let me tell you something. This world has been ruling and not Black people. And whatever comes out in this world to you, it comes out with the approval of this world.
So, if I have the power to sit above you or outside of your view, and decide what you will get and what you won't get, than tell me who has prepared what you're using. Who has ordered the things that you have? I have, if I am the one that say what you don't get and what you get. Does that make sense to you? That's right. You've got some of the brothers, they're around here singing and they're sick. They try to get naked. If they can't get naked, they'll wear pants so tight that it reveal all their organs, and they do dances before the audience to excite lust in the audience. You have the music and you have the sex image building up in you the forces of sex.
Let me tell you something. There are many animals that can out-sex you. They can throw out children faster than you can and they can stay with it longer than you can. But that don't make them rulers of the world. So, if the man can excite you to become an abnormal creature with your sex-drive, he can hold you down with the forces of sex.
Read the history of Old kingdoms, how they plotted to ruin and overthrow another competing kingdom. If they couldn't meet the kingdom in the battlefield with physical forces, they sent in invisible forces. The invisible force of lust for sex. They incited them to become over-sexed. They sent in their best women and educated these women, trained these women to be real clever, to know what to say at the right time to a man to weaken him.
Then, they sent those women in. They were prostitutes, but they didn't look like prostitutes though. They looked like the best women in the country. They would dress them up to look like the best people on Earth. I'm talking about real prostitutes. That thing you've been looking at, that ain't nothing but some cheap trash. They don't do anything, but just lose all their human dignity. I'm talking about that old skilled prostitute of the Book. They were wise, brother. She came away with her dignity and your power.
Look at Delilah. Delilah, read the Bible, they don't call Delilah a prostitute. No, Delilah was a great force in the power of government. Delilah did a dirty, filthy thing. The same old thing a prostitute does. But she has a big name on the pages of history. Is that right? Because she used her power as an instrument of political power, and she brought the man down. Is that right? All right.
They don't have Delilahs now. Government is too big and complicated. They can't be training women to go out here in the community and mess us up. The world is too big. They'd have to use a few women that they got to go and mess up Mao Tse-tung if they could just reach him, or some other great, strong ruler if he can be reached. But you, they don't do that with you. They just get you to dance. They just make you sexy, get you to shaking hips you know, and they know what's happening to you.
You don't need no sharp, false tongued Delilah. All you need is some hot music, and you're all in heat and ready to go. You go to work, and you have to do all your work without thinking because your mind ain't on nothing but sex. So, you become, oh, you're something else. You so efficient on the job, as long as it require nothing but physical things to do. You just throw more pieces in the fire, in the place, the man looking at you and he's, "Good G-d almighty, here is automation with flesh". You're doing more than machines can do, but your mind ain't on the work.
Your mind is on sex. Every now and then you think, "Well, that's $34 today." Tomorrow, you will think of her again, "Good G-d almighty, $68 dollars. I know that she'll be moved when I lay this on her". So, the man ain't worried about you being a competitor in the world of competition of the material strength. He knows where you're going. You're going to Sadie, and after you give Sadie some, Sadie gonna tell you where to spend the rest of it.
You go back home, you can't see you're a wreck. You're moving so often, they should call you nomad. A desert Arab or something. You move more than the nomads of the desert. Today, he's living on 67th Place. Next week, he's living on 68th Place. Month later, he is on 38th Place. Sadie got him moving everywhere. Brothers let me tell you something, this world-
... Some great Master Plan to wipe us out physically. The man laugh at that kind of foolishness. Why wipe you out physically when you are a physical asset to him? He doesn't want to wipe you out physically. He want to keep you here because you demand little, but give much. You work hard, you put out more human energy than anybody else. Some of you work 40 hours. Some of you work 80 hours. Some of you work 90 and 100 hours a week. But you stay in the same old position on the economic scale. You still are poor.
You hope that by next month or next year you'll be able to ride around in one of those big Lincoln, what do they call them, Mark IV or something. Or in an El Dorado, or a Mercedes-Benz. Then, there go a fool running down the streets in a Mercedes-Benz. Something happens to the Mercedes-Benz their he is, without a show. He don't have no more showpiece now. The people see him as he is. But he will work himself to death for a showpiece to let somebody think he's something that he's not.
We are talking about the Devil now and his use of forces. He looks at the Creation. He examines the Creation and he sees in the Creation that it has forces. So, he studied these forces and he uses these forces to master the world, but there is a higher man that G-d made. He is a man that G-d trained to look at the nature, not at the forces just as forces, but he is trained to look at the forces as nature. He rises to a higher knowledge and in seeing nature, then his eyes quickly comes over to the Devil. He says, "Yeah, look how that Devil is using forces to change my original nature." He stop letting himself being a tool of the Devil.
Let's go back to the board now. We want to quickly look at this and keep the subject going. Time is flying here. All right. So, G-d raises a being out of the Earth and grows him up right, and he's growing in more than one dimension. He's growing in size, and he's growing in organization. What has this world sold you? They have sold you a lie.
They told you that all human beings are born free. They want you to love the idea of democracy, individual freedom. The best song you can sing for the Devil is that old song you call, do your own thing or do my own thing. "Oh, I'll just do my own thing man. I don't follow anybody. Hell man, that's why the world is all messed up. Niggers is joining organizations and movements. I do my own thing." When you say that, that Devil, that was a little worried, oh, he sits back and smiles saying, "Good G-d almighty, it never could be so good." Now, I don't have to watch that nigger anymore. He's going to keep himself out of everything. The more I tell you... Let's look at this board.
Movement is going upwards. It's getting bigger all the time. That clot of blood is bigger than that sperm drop was, but at the same time, something else is happening. A life germ is throwing off what it don't want. That sperm drop didn't go in as you saw it and manifest life. It was just one little strong power, germ, in that drop of sperm, that drove itself forward. The force is subtle, and it found what it wanted, and it left everything else behind it.
So, it's not only moving up, but it's moving up and leaving off what's not good for you. And, it's getting larger all the time. Is that right? Pretty soon it becomes a clot of flesh, and we look into it and we still can't see that there's a government forming in this thing. But after a while, we look and we see that there's legs and body, trunk, and a head sitting on it. You say, "Good G-d almighty, look at this thing. Well, this is not just an organism. This is the government here. Thing got foundation. Got feet service.
Better than a machine. You don't have to mash a button to tell this part what to do. You walk around here and never give a conscious thought to the feet. But everything that I desire, the feet just automatically agrees with it. It moves this man around, and he still like moving. Oh, isn't that wonderful? Thing just move me without me even worrying about it.
Now, you think I want to be so silly to start worshipping some legs? You got some men, they get can't above the legs. Man, I see them all day watching women's legs. "Oh man, look at that beauty. Oh woo, legs." But not the divine man. He knows that these things were made to obey him without asking any questions. Man, move on up. Come up here to a location we call the bowel region. B-O-W-E-L, is that it? The region of the bowel. In that region, the man is digesting the physical things of this world. He's picking what is good for his physical flesh form, and throwing off what is bad. Is that right?
Then, we move on up to what we call the lung region, the region of the heart and the lungs. In that region, he is breathing air into the lungs from the strength of his blood. His blood is being made healthy and stronger by the breathing of his lungs. He really is not so interested in taking in physical things. He is interested in keeping himself healthy and strong. Is that right?
All right, then we have also a kidney that works to purify the flesh. Is that right? It keeps the flesh healthy looking and strong. The kidneys throw it off into his sewer. So, we see that this man is a world in himself, and he's built from the ground upwards. At the top of him is a head. Take this off now. On top of this structure is a head. Now, what's wrong with you brother? Now, they're talking about you don't want to follow nobody. Is that what your nature taught you? Not to follow anything? Your nature grew from a simple, unformed, unorganized thing, into a well-formed and well-organized thing with a head upon it to rule it, and every limb in your body accepts without questioning the voice, or the dictates of that head.
Now, if you want to be natural, you better start loving leadership. A leaderless people is no different than a headless body. You cut the head off of a body and it's dead. Somebody has to carry it and bury it. Is that right? If you cut leadership off from the people, the people as a body will die. "Well, I'm living. I don't have no leader." You're not living. You are alive in somebody else’s living. If you don't have a leadership, you are not living. You belong to whatever people that have power, or influence, or forces in that world that you call yourself living in.
What I'm saying is that if you don't belong to Allah, you belong to the world of darkness and ignorance. You belong to the Devil. You either belong to Allah, or you belong to the Devil. You may not have a leader in your own conscious, but you still have a leader brother. You're being led without your recognition. You don't recognize it, but you're being led.
You know once I heard two people talking, and one of the people were just bragging continuously about how smart he was. It looked like G-d blessed this other one with the right questions to ask this one. Because he just couldn't get anything in. He couldn't say a thing. This other fellow was just right behind, just coming out with words like that, bragging about how great he was. So, he said something and the other fellow must have recognized where he got that from. So, when he said it, this other fellow said, "Where did you get that?"
And a dead look come on this braggarts face. It just threw him off. He just stopped talking. He couldn't rip off anymore. So looked like he said, "Good G-d, what's this man talking about?" He was running off his mouth with the feeling that he had a whole lot, but when the man asked him where did he get that from it made him conscious of himself and his own limitations.
The same thing will happen to you. You just go around bragging that you don't have any leader, you don't follow anybody. The same thing will happen to you if I would take the time to press in your mind, and the things that you accept in your mind, and ask you, "Where did you get that from?" When you get through asking me, you would tell me who your leader is.
Nature has a design, that is G-d has designed it in nature, that when a baby is born the baby comes out of the womb of its mother head first. Is that right? So, G-d has showed us even in the birth of a child that the head is before anything else. Brother, I insist that we have to move on up. Don't satisfy those people who feed the world, that is, the minds of the people lies to make you give up on human strength. They want you to give up on human strength, so that they will have all the resources. If you give up on human strength, they have the physical resources and the human resources. If you want to really grow up and be somebody, then you should accept one from your own body to stand before you and receive respect from you as the head of your collective body. Listen to those who feed the world counsel, so that the world, not them, but the world isn't included. No growth.
So, we have two kinds of people in the world. One who feeds you, so that they can get control over the resources. Then you have the other kind of person that feeds you, so that the resources will continue to grow. Their concern is to increase the resources. Now, the other one's concern is to control the resources.
That's right. You will find people who will come to you, and at first when they come to you they first search you out. They look you over. You don't even know they're studying you. They're standing at a distance, and they are weighing you from head-to-toe. They watch how you move. They watch how you speak. They watch the way you laugh. They watch the way you wear your clothes. They watch everything about you. Then, after they get through watching you, they go home, and they take out a piece of paper and they right down your description. "He as strong in this area, weak in this area, strong in this area, weak in this area. Let's see now, among the weak areas where is my field of operation. Well in this area, I can work here because I have something to sell them in that area. I can do something here, or I have something sell them in this area." They mark down all of your weak areas, then they come to you. This is the first time you've seen them. They've been seeing you for a long time.
"Hey man, ain't this a damn shame? That nigger Muhammad, he want all of us to be alike, look alike, think alike. Hell, that nigger want to take all the joy out of life man. That nigger want to regiment people man. I ain't going for that. I know you ain't going for it Jeff. No, you got more sense than that. Hell, you got more sense than me man. I've been digging you a long time." You started saying...First your mind was with Muhammad. "Yeah, man. I've been thinking about it man. I ain't never been able to go over to that place Jim." "Say, well look man, what about this man? Looka here Jim. See, this package I got. Hell, with you we can really work this thing out man. Check this thing out man. You'll really know what's happening Jim. I ain't got enough up here to handle it baby. What do you think about it?" "It look good to me man, yeah, yeah." "Yeah, there you go, we got you."
The best knowledge you can get is self-knowledge. The knowledge of how your own self come into being, how it develops and grows, how it operates. Where it's strength is, and where it's weaknesses are. That's the best knowledge you can get. Once you get that knowledge, nobody can destroy you. You will have to kill yourself, nobody else can do it. That's right, nobody can handle me brother, nobody.
If you would just stick with us, we will show you how to take the greatest Devil power in the world and handle it like you handle a top. Put it on a string and throw it out, and watch it spin. If you get tired of watching it spin, kick it over and stop it. And if you don't throw it again out on a string, it will stop spinning anyway because you threw it out. That's exactly what the wise of our people...When I say our people, I'm not talking about people as you see people. I'm talking about people as they really exist. The wise of our people, they made the world that you see today.
They weren't worried about what the world would do. They knew that they made it, and that in time it would have to stop spinning, or come back to them for power to keep it rotating. This world has now run out. It has no power to keep itself going, and it's wobbling and falling like a top that's winding down. Have you ever watched a spinning top? When it's thrown out, it's spinning and it's straight up. It looks like it's going to stay there forever. And pretty soon, it slows down and starts wobbling like a drunken person.
That's exactly what is happening to this world. They picked up the power that was not theirs. What I mean when I say not theirs, the power of Creation doesn't belong to a liar or a deceitful crook. It belongs to the righteous. It belongs to G-d and their nature, and if a lying, deceitful person picks up that power, they can use it all right. But it's just a matter of time before their use of it is going to run out. And when it stops wobbling and falling, there's nothing they can do to bring it up.
I'm here to tell you brother and sister, don't look for no leadership from the Caucasian people. Don't look for it tomorrow, don't look for it anytime in the future. It's not going to come. They're going down. They will never be able to rise again unless we lift them up. And do you think we're going to do it?
We are going to execute justice, and justice is to lift up that that they have passed down. If you will come and let yourself be lifted up brother and sister, once you're on your feet with this, what we give you, there ain't no competition. There's no competition for you. "Oh well Mr. Big Talker, tell us how you're going to get airplanes. Tell us how you're going to get trains and buses, and skyscrapers, ocean liners, and missiles?" Well, how do you take it from a baby? We did it the wise way. You won't even hear the baby cry.
We don't worry about it. We're not here to half-do things. We're here to undo things that have been half-done. Men do a job, that is a job complete. Thank you. So, the one lesson that we should learn today and never forget it. The Devil has no power to rule humans. The Devil has the power to trick you, tempt you, and trick you into lowering yourself and falling down below the status of a human. Once he can get you to do that, then he has power to come in and rule. But he cannot deal with human beings brother. He only can deal with savages, people who give themselves to wildness, who won't accept order, who hate discipline, who like to relax in ignorance where they can follow loosely. Those are the people that the Devil is coming to and ruling them.
If you get strong as a human being, you already defeated him. He looks at you, and he envies you. He says, "Good G-d, there goes one for G-d. I can't deal with them. They belong to the Most High." I just hope he won't come anywhere I go." He will fear you, and just hope that you won't be where he is when he is there because just your presence hurts his strength. You don't have to say nothing to the weak-minded Devil. I'm not talking about spooks.
There's no Devil, but a flesh and blood Devil. They don't exist anywhere else, and they're not in animals either. You go see these old crazy movies, and they make you think the Devil is coming out of a wall. Get’s into a chair. Makes the books fall off the shelf. Drive a dog mad. Well, you're just looking at a bunch of LSD tripping when you're watching that kind of stuff. The Devil in reality is a human being that can be upset and moved about by invisible forces that come from the power of the brain off the slick, clear tongue. And when that lying and wickedness is going into a human being and find a reception there, it takes all power in the mind over flesh and blood person and it grows, and grows, and grows. It will make that person behave like a mad dog.
Keep your eyes open to all the Devils who come to you with a bag saying they got something to sell you. We don't buy anything. Some people are peddling things. Anybody that has to appeal to your emotions is too weak for your strong, mighty form to follow. You were born to rule over your emotions. So those people who come to you from an emotional side, they're coming to you in hopes of stirring up your weak side. And if they can get your weak side to blow up bigger in proportion to your strong side, they will have you in their pocket.
Anybody who go out of here and go sit in some church or synagogue or mosque, I don't care what it is. If you go and sit in any religious place, or go sit in any superstitious circle, and listen to them tell you about something that you can't understand, and you give yourself over to that, you are just nothing. That's right. You're just nothing. What happens to you should happen to you. You are not fit for anybody to have patience with. If you can listen to this talk and see yourself, and your growth and your strength, how you come into a man. How you become a grown up. And then go back and listen to baby talk and let that baby talk take you out of the adult world back into a baby world, you ought to be in a baby world and you ought to be kicked around.
G-d shouldn't even listen to your prayer. Go back and listen to a preacher tell you that that Jesus Christ was born and died and suffered death on the cross for your sins that you will be saved, that Jesus gave his life, G-d's only-begotten Son. Gave his life, so that the world will be saved. He came to save sinners. That sounds good, but how strong is it? It's weaker than water. It can't stand up to one minute of knowledgeable examination. It's for babies.
Adults who are babies in their nature, babies in their mind, who don't have willpower to live on, they have to live on dreams and foolishness. If you notice, in this Temple of Islam, all you hear is words coming direct from our minds, but when you go to their places they got to have a lot of old music, drums are going, guitars are going. And those that can't afford instruments, they got a lot of big mouthed singers. "Wow, oh Lord, yeah, yeah." I'm not just making fun. The purpose here is to wake up the intellect, to wake up the mind.



