09/05/1976
IWDM Study Library 
Universal Numbers

By Imam W. Deen Mohammed
In the Name of Allah, The Merciful Benefactor and The Merciful Redeemer. May the Peace and blessings forever be upon His Messenger Muhammad, Ameen. I give open testimony that there is no G-d but Allah, the One and Only. There's nothing equivalent to Him or like unto Him and I bear witness openly that Muhammad is truly His slave, servant and His Messenger. Dear Muslims, dear guests, we're happy to be here today in this month of Ramadan, the month of fast for the Muslims. A month to which many great blessings are expected to come to the Muslim community, because in the Muslim community we are certain that there are many who are observing the month of fast and Allah will certainly bless us, reward us for our observance of the month of fast. I would like to read a few verses from the Holy Qur'an, and after which I'd like to speak to you on the subject of numbers, the universal system of numbers that we have today in the world. The numbers one through 10. But first let me read verses from the Holy Qur'an, beginning with chapter six, verse 139.
How many are observing the month of fast? Let's see your hands. Very good. Very good. Allah is sure to bless you for observing the month of fast. Bismillah Ar Rahma, Nir Raheem. In the Name of G-d, Most Gracious, Most Merciful and Sincere. "They say what is in the womb of such and such cattle is essentially reserved for our men as food. And forbidden to our women as food. But if it's stillborn, then all have share in it." I'd like to open our talk today with this thought from the Holy Qur'an, which is speaking to the evil conspiracy on the part of leadership against the ignorant masses of the people. This is revealed almost 1400 years ago, better than 1400 years ago, probably. But today, we still have the same problems, in fact, it's worse today. It's getting better now, but it's just now, after the rising of The Nation of Islam in the West, that it's getting better.
And there's also mention in the Bible, in many places, especially in Genesis and even in the New Testament, if we can understand it. The scriptures are warning us of a time that is coming upon the world, a time that is going to bring all the evil out of the people. And this time is going to come because the leadership deprived the common people of knowledge that G-d made freely to all. Almighty G-d, Allah, the Creator of the heavens and the Earth, He made the world, as you know, to subject our minds and thoughts.And these thoughts start out intelligence, to move it. It moves the rational powers of our mind and feeds the intelligence. The natural creation does this. But if someone feeds our mind things to minimize our intelligence, then the natural creation cannot reach our minds with clear knowledge. So this has happened, and the Holy Qur'an is speaking to the religious leadership, that leadership that was responsible for inventing such a conspiracy.
Because by conspiracy, we mean, men who get together and plan a plan against the people. A plan against G-d, against nature and against the people, this is what we mean by conspiracy. A plan to put the power into their hands and keep it out of the hands of all others. So here are a few people coming together, planning to keep the power in their hands and keep it from coming to the hands of any other. And twisting truth, twisting facts of nature, twisting human nature, twisting facts of divine revelation, twisting them to create the kind of thinking in the minds of the ignorant people that will keep them in the wrong path, that will keep them going away from truth and reality. So, this is what was done, and the Holy Qur'an gives a very beautiful allegorical verse here, it says, "They say what is in the wombs of such and such cattle."
Now, if you remember, there was one evening we spoke here and we had a drawing by Brother Magee, and that drawing had this cow on it. And we were identifying that cow as the society. Society. It can be national society, small society or it can be the whole world. But it so happens that for these conspirators, the cow moves from the natural dimension to take in the whole world. So, they saw the whole world as a fatted cow or a fatted calf, that was for them, which they could enjoy, while all the other just get the... Well, you get the hind parts and the inferior parts of it, you see? So, the Holy Qur'an is saying here, "Such and such cattle." Being that there was a secret cattle or secret calf or cow here that they have in their mind to preserve for themselves and to preserve the healthy products of that cow, or that society, now that we have explained it, it means the society. Whatever is healthy and pure and free in that society, they plan to preserve it for their men.
Now what do they mean by men? We have also translated the word man in the Bible to mean, mind. So, men would be that select group of people. They call them elders, the wicked elders. There are the righteous elders and the wicked elders, right? So, these are the wicked elders of Satan himself, the evil mind, the enemy mind, his elders now, they have a calf and that is the secret calf, no one knows about it. That means they have an idea, a picture of the world, a society that no one knows about but them. So this is a secret plan or a secret idea of society. And in their plan, they have their own movements, their own activities, their own strategies and everything. And unless we know, have knowledge of this idea of theirs, this picture of society that they have as a secret knowledge for themselves, we won't understand their movements, we won't be able to detect their crookedness when they're moving in our midst.
But once we know the design, the picture of this society that they conceive, the picture that they conceive of the world, the picture of the world as they see it, then we can recognize their movements in our midst. They know that, so they keep this idea away from us. That that the society produce that is healthy, clean, perfect, whole. That's what it means by... Here it says, "That man is born, that is stillborn." Stillborn is that that comes dead. Is that right? So, it means, that that the society produce... Now remember, a calf is a likeness of its mother. The cow, right? So, whatever the society produce has a likeness of itself. Now, what is the likeness of our society that the society produce? It is the knowledge.
The society produces knowledge that shows us the likeness of the society. And by us taking on that knowledge, we understand the society. Is that right? We don't consume the society physically, but if we have the knowledge of the society, we can consume the society mentally. Is that right? So, the likeness of the society, that the society produced is its knowledge. When that knowledge is born alive, when it's alive, healthy and whole and alive, they take it, and give it to themselves, their men. It means the top elders, the group of conspirators, they take that knowledge. And when it is born stillborn, means dead, when it comes out dead, it looks like the real thing but it has no life. Right? And it has no growth. The dead calf stays the same size all the time, because it's locked away. Is that right? No life, no growth. So, they give that with the masses, you see?
That knowledge that has no life and no power to produce and no growth, they give it to the masses. But it's the knowledge that if left alone that's going to bring about rot and decay Is that right? All right. And you know, dead things, if we consume them, they destroy the health of the body that consumes them. So, we just wanted to hit on that a little bit, because we want to keep the light on in the house, you see? Now, let's go and read from another verse. Just have patience. When you're fasting, you're supposed to have patience. Now, we can't put the same burden on the weak that we put on the strong. So, if any of you are old or seriously weak or too young, then when it gets too painful for you, move around, stand up, don't do it in here though, that will destroy the order here. But take off quietly and do it back there. Get yourself relaxed again and force yourself to stay here and get back into the struggle.
If you're in the struggle, that's it, step out a little bit. Come on back in and sit down again. Some go out and ashamed to come back. The shame is going out. I should be proud, and I'm telling you coming back, that's proud. That's a proud act. So, if you have to go out, go out, but then do that proud act, come on back in. And those of you who are not fasting and you want to make a sacrifice today by staying here with us as though you were fasting, then you will get rewarded too, right? Now let's read from Qur'an, Chapter seven, verse three. Now we are moving from the thought of the corrupters and the corruption of society, to the thought of salvation. The thought of salvation and savior, our deliverer. Here, we read from the Qur'an verse three, of chapter seven. Bismillah Ar Rahma, Nir Raheem. In the Name of G-d, Most Gracious, Most Merciful.
It says here, "Follow the revelation given to you from your Lord and follow not as friends or protectors other than Him. Little it is you remember of admonition, or of instructive warning." We know that in the Holy Qur'an, the same words or the words with the same meaning "Wali", and here it is used in the plural, "Awliyaa" Is used in a verse that tells us to not take Jews and Christians for friends or protectors. Is that right? It says, "Do not take the Jews and the Christians for Awliyaa." "Awliyaa" Is the plural of "Wali" and "Wali", as you know, is an attribute of Almighty G-d, when we put L before it, making it absolute or total. "Al Wali" means the friend and protector, or the friendly protector, the one in whom we put our complete trust. Do you understand?
This is a special word in the text of the Holy Qur'an, in the contents of the Holy Qur'an, this word "Wali" is a special word, it is not an ordinary word. For our friend, we say "Rafiqui" my friend. My friend "Rafiqui" can be just a friend that I see as trustworthy person. So he is my friend because I've learned that he's truthful and is trustworthy, you see? So "Sadiqui" it means truth, truthful person.
For It means, spoke the truth. Is that right? You who know Arabic will understand. You'll follow it. But you who don't know it, you also can follow it. Understand that I am using words and I'm showing their different meanings and establishing a basis on this to support whatever I'm about to say. Is that right? So, you understand that. And that's as much as I want you to understand.
If you can read Arabic and understand it, then that's very good too. But my point is only to establish what I'm saying as truth, you see? And if I can do that without teaching you Arabic, then I've done my job. Yes. Then it says, I mean, another word, pardon me, is "Rafiq" and "Rafiq" means companion. So, people are our friends because they are good company. They are our friends because they are trustworthy. And then there are others who are our friends because we see in them power to protect us, is that right? So, this special word, "Wali" is given in the Holy Qur'an. And it says, "Do not take Jews and Christians for "Awliyaa". The plural of "Wali". Don't take them for "Awliyaa". And then translated by Yusef Ali to mean friends or protector.
But I don't like the word friend or protector. And believe me, I can work in his translation. If I can't prove I'm superior to him in Arabic, I can guarantee you that I can prove I'm superior to him in English. He never claimed to be a master or a scholar of English, you see? And I was born with this language, so I know when or should be there and when it should not be there. So, he used or. Not intentionally. These people are doing their best, you can see it. They're doing their best. He said, "For friends or protectors." But he should have combined the two and said, "For friends and protectors." You, see? Because the word has, in its meaning, both friend and protector. Now, it says in another part of the Holy Qur'an, it says the "Walis". The "Walis" are plural in Arabic. "Awliyaa". The "Awliyaa, which means many of them, are of Allah. They work and support the plan of Allah.
And the "Awliyaa" of Shaitan, or Satan, the enemy of man, they work and support his plan, the enemy of man, is that right? So here, we have this word used in many different verses and in many different connections. And in another place, we have it, it says, and it's right here, I have quoted two places, now, indeed we have a third place as well. "Follow the revelation given to you from your Lord, and follow not as friends or protectors or as friends and protectors other than Him." Here, the true meaning of this word comes home, because Allah is the best friend and protector of the believer. So many places in the Holy Qur'an, Allah is the friend and protector of the believer, you see? So, if Allah is the friend and protector of the believers, then why should we trust our security, our defense, our happiness in the hands of others? We can't do that.
No. They might feel friendship, they might feel trustworthiness, but no society is worthy of the trust that only Allah Himself is entitled to. I don't trust my life with society. That is why my life was lost, that's why I was found dead, because my father trusted their lives with society. We have to trust our life with only the Creator of the heaven and Earth, with Allah himself. That means that we should not even trust our life with the Prophet. We don't trust our life with the Prophet. The Muslims weren't told my the Prophet to put your life in my hands. The Muslims were told by the Prophet to put your life in Allah's hands and follow me. Is that right? Why? Because the Prophet is not eternal, he is here for a time and a period. He's going to do his job and pass away like everybody else. Then, when he is passed away, if we put ourselves completely in the Prophet's hands, when he's gone, we are going to be frustrated and are going to fall into despair. Is that right?
But if we keep our trust in G-d, who creates Prophets and guides Prophets so Prophets can be a guide to the society. If we keep our faith in the Almighty G-d, then when our leaders fall, we stand up as society, give birth to another leader equal to that one. Is that right? If the society never give birth to another leader equal to that one, we are the proof that that one has left. Is that right? This is the way. Now if G-d hadn't blessed me with a superior understanding of the teachings of our great former leader, of Elijah Muhammad, what would have happened to this society? Many would have followed what truth they had. They would have taken the rest of it. They would've said, "No, wait. I'll hold on to the truth I have." But the majority would have tried to continue the lies of the former leaders and they would have led many astray.
Because only the former leaders could lead what he had. That's why he said, "There is no leaders coming after me. There's no one to succeed me." No. No one can come up and take what I have and continue it, but when I stop that's the end of it. He said, "But G-d will bless you with one in time." He didn't know how many years, but he knew it would come eventually. He said, "Maybe 500 years from now, and one will come and eat up all that I have done and make a new world." That's what he said. All right. If G-d had not blessed us with Muhammad, then we would have been forced, those who have been guided right, they would have been forced to just keep the truth that they had and live with it. Not the kind that matters, not the kind that go into mysteries that they have no life for, is that right? We see that that has happened among us, many among us have tried to continue the work of Elijah, they have tried to defend the life of Elijah.
He died at his year of death that was decreed for him to die by Almighty G-d. No one can bring him back into life and say, "No. He's going to live another year or five more years or 20 more years, I am going to keep him alive." You can't even keep yourself alive. How you going to keep someone else alive, is that right? But we find, that there are among us, those who have been led astray, have been blinded by the light of truth, into thinking that now that the leader is gone, I can take his place and I can live for him. No. Indeed, that's not how G-d does it. So, He says, "Take not for Awliyaa, for friends and protectors other than Myself." Because G-d Himself is the only one who can defend and protect us. He is the only one. If He had not revealed the truth to us, we would have no protection and we would have no friendships. We would be without protection and we would be enemies, one to another. Is that right?
But because He revealed the truth, He makes us friends, one to another. He gives us friendship among ourselves, He gives us friendship outside of ourselves, and then He is the friend of all the negros, is that right? And He is the Protector alone. No one else can protect but Him. Then in the Holy Qur'an, "On Allah alone do we put our trust." That's why the Muslim is instructed, whatever you do, do it "Bismillah". Do we ever say... I know we have made the mistake of this, but even when I was a half grown young man, I told you that you shouldn't say it. They were saying In the Name of Allah and In the Name of His Messenger. I told them that long, many years ago, I told them. I said, "That's wrong." My father was here, he never put me out of the community for telling them that was wrong. He never brought me up and said, "Warith, I hear you're telling them not to say it In the name of Allah and In the name of his servant, myself."
He never did that. So, if he never did that, why didn't they let their senses work for them and say, "Maybe he's right." He's standing openly, he never gets up and speak before us and say, "In the name of Allah, In the Name of His Messenger." I can say, "In the Name of Allah and we thank Him for The Honorable Elijah Muhammad. That's how I told them. 20 years ago, almost. I said, "Say, In the Name of Allah. And we thank him for his servant, The Honorable Elijah Muhammad." When we say In the Name of Allah and something else, we are copying polytheism. Paganism. Who say, "In the Name of G-d, The Father, Son and The Holy Ghost." And then In the Name of Mary and in the name of Saint George. When you get started, you never get through, isn't that right? Yeah. So, the Holy Qur'an is very clear, perfect guidance for us. It only opens up In the Name of Allah. It associates none as shareholders with Him in His kingdom. A shareholder has part of the authority. A shareholder has part of the power.
And the Holy Qur'an says if there had been shareholders in the rule of this universe, then this universe, a long time ago, would have been in chaos. It is because the shareholders would have differed among themselves, and one would have insisted that his design be on it. And another one would have insisted that his design be on it. And they would have insisted that it be made in this shape and go in this order, so it would have resulted in nothing but chaos. Now, we know we can have no order, even in our society, until we establish one mind as a leader for the society, is that right? We have a government called The United States of America, and this government has established a constitution that serves as a mind, a mind equipped for this society, is that right? And if the leaders take on the mind of the Constitution, then the people say, "We will follow that leader." Is that right?"
So, G-d, now, has given us a manual in the Qur'an. And as long as the leader takes on the mind of the Qur'an, he is worthy to be our leader, is that right? All right. But we can't have any two or three minds. Suppose the leader comes up and says, "I am introducing another book, and it's not the Holy Qur'an." We cannot follow him. He has divided our leadership in that he has divided our mind. We can't follow Bible and Holy Qur'an, we must follow the Holy Qur'an. We can refer to the Bible, we can consult the Bible, we can bring the Bible into question, is that right? We can make a study of the Bible, we can utilize the Bible by using that that is good of the Bible, that supports that that is our mind, is that right? But it must serve our mind and not sit on any equal seat with our mind. Is that right? All right. Likewise for leadership. You can't bring two people in, they have different minds. If one don't agree to contribute to the other, then we have to get rid of one or the other. This is plain, common sense teaching.
Now, let us go to another. I want us now to come to the thought of ruler in the Earth. We know that the Holy Qur'an teaches against spooks being rulers for physical beings. We don't have any belief in spirit devils that are spooks without real arguments or real connections with some real body. If there is a devil, he has some connection with a real body or a physical body. Then there is a saint or a holy ghost, he has a connection with some real or physical body. Is that right? In the society of men and women, G-d has not created anything un-perceptible, to be the guide or a trouble in your midst. Do you understand? If G-d had done that, then He would have wronged human beings. Whatever He has put in our environment to be a guide for us, that guide is something that we can recognize with our common sense, with our five senses. Whatever He has put into our society as a threat, as an enemy to us, that thing also can be recognized by our common sense, our five senses.
The Holy Qur'an says that if you had been a community of angels, G-d would have sent to you an angel as a leader. But since you are a community of flesh and blood people, G-d sent to you a Messenger of flesh and blood man as a leader. This is the teachings of the Holy Qur'an, you see, a beautiful teaching. You may say, "Well what is this about Allah not being something I can see with physical eyes?" No one has told you, not in this place, under my direction, that you cannot see G-d with your physical eyes. I have told you, you cannot see Him in his entirety with your physical eye. Which means He is the manifest that we all can see and He's also the hidden that we cannot see without revelation or divine guidance. And no human being or no part of the creation, nor the total creation can see G-d in His entirety. Because out of Him, came creation. Which tell us the creation was smaller than Him. So how can that that is smaller have an eye to see that that is bigger than his whole body?
And again, let us look at creation itself. Mankind has been living on this planet for untold billions of years and we have not yet seen the frame of the creation itself. We've only seen it in parts, isn't that right? And how can we think we're going to see that one out of which this whole thing came, all of it came in its whole entirety? No. There is no end to creation when it comes to the human being's mind, is that right? All right. But we shouldn't be like the people of Moses, who said, "I'll follow you, Moses. If you show me G-d in a physical body." Isn't that what they said in the Holy Qur'an and it was so beautiful? Said, "We'll follow you, Moses. If you show us G-d in a physical body." They just wanted a chance to crucify G-d. They couldn't deal with this G-d who was able to show what He wanted to show and keep hidden what He wanted to keep hidden, you see? They wanted a G-d that would show all, so they could kill all. Isn't that right?
And the Holy Qur'an said, "All right." It said, "Moses, I'm going to prepare you for these ignorant people." All Praise is due to Allah. It said, "Moses, you are one of them and I know your mind. Your mind has been gone in physical senses. And dealing with the government in physical senses. You haven't come in contact with the spiritual dimension. So, I want to wake you up, Moses. Because I want you to be the leader to the people like yourself. A dead, physical, hard-headed, meat and bone head, fat, fat, fat headed people. See, I'm going to make you the leader to these people. So let me first call you to the mountain. I want to show you something in the bush." So, when Moses looked into the mountain of the world and saw knowledge burning in it, and then out of that knowledge, he heard the voice of G-d speaking.
Moses said, "My goodness." And fell down on his knees and swooned. G-d had told him and said, "Now Moses, after I show you these things, if you see the mountain as it was, then you will see me. But if this mountain does not stand as it was, then you shall not see me, is that right?" The Holy Qur'an says that the mountain turned to dust, is that right? The mountain turned to dust. Now, what does this mean? Moses was elevated spiritually in knowledge, by rational progress, by rational progress, he was elevated spiritually in knowledge and he saw that the physical things that we see with our eyes are nothing but small, insignificant things all put together to make it look like it's all so bad, is that right? But if we have the understanding to see the parts, the mountain won't be nothing but particles of dust, that's what Moses found.
But now G-d's didn't want him to see that so much as He wanted him to see something else. But that was enough for Moses, because it wasn't quite time for Jesus and Muhammad, is that right? So that was enough for Moses, to deal with what he had to deal with. So, Moses became a preacher of law and wisdom, is that right? And he is known as the preacher or the emancipator who carries the law and wisdom, is that right? All right. But there was something else yet to come, the mountain shouldn't have crumbled down into dust. The mountain should have stayed there. And if the mountain had stayed there with what G-d had given him, he certainly would have seen G-d, but not the physical being. He would have seen G-d with rational and spiritual and moral being, do you understand? But the mountain crumbled to dust, so Moses was blessed with rational knowledge. But he still hadn't gotten that supreme spiritual knowledge that would have enabled him to see G-d without seeing things we can explained in a rational sense. Do you understand? I hope you understand.
He should have seen the mountain as a sign of G-d, and the mountain would have stood there, do you understand? If you had seen that mountain standing up, if it had not turned to dust and just stood there for him, he would have seen a sign of G-d's will in the Earth. Because nothing that He created is meant to be changed in any other sense or in any other image. Everything that He has created, He wants you to see it the image in which He has created it, do you understand? All right. So He said, "If it does not stand in its place, then you are not going to see Me, but if that mountain stand in its place, Moses, you will see Me." Now, this is not speaking so much to Moses as an individual leader of these people. This is speaking to the people because Moses, if he was blessed with that understanding, he is obligated to give that understanding to the people.
So, G-d is telling us that Moses is not going to get all of this understanding, because it is not My design to give these people that much at this time, they have not proven themselves worthy to receiving that much at this time. Is that right? All right. Another thing, but we don't have time to go over all those things, let's keep on track. All right. So, if Moses had seen the mountain and understood what G-d was telling him out of fire, out of rational teaching, if he had understood the message of G-d on a rational teaching and if that mountain had stayed in the shape of a mountain and not turned to dust, then Moses would have seen this and this would have been seeing G-d. He would have seen the will of G-d. To see G-d is to see His will. How can you see me if you can't see my will? You can see me physically, but is that seeing me?
Maybe I got an identical twin, is that right? Maybe I'll wake up with a disease or with something else that will distort this physical image, and you won't recognize me, but if I'm a truthful man, my will, will stand. It will be yesterday as it is today, is that right? Or today as it was yesterday, is that right? All right. So, G-d was telling the Hebrews, in that scripture that, "To see Me is to see My will." Don't be foolish, people. You don't apply such ignorance to yourselves, why apply it to G-d? You don't say you know a person because they stand 5'8, and weigh 155 pounds, in dark brown complexation and so on and so forth. You don't say you know them because of that kind of image or identification, you say you know them because you've communicated with the inner being. You have heard the heart of that person speaking, you've heard the mind of that person speaking. You have felt his soul, is that right? And because you you've felt the hidden things on the inside of a person, you say, "I know Warith Deen Mohammed." Isn't that right?
You say, "I know brother John, I know sister Mary, I know brother Abdullah." Is that right? You say that because you have seen behind the veil of the physical body into the house or the temple of G-d, is that right? And you say, "I've seen him and I know him for myself." Is that right? So, G-d has not created anything out here in the physical, real world, to deceive us. It is the devil that came in mind and crafted intelligence that twists our minds and make our senses see things as they shouldn't be seen. He is the one that is responsible for thinking that these realities in the world are not to be taken as they are, but are to be twisted out of form. They are real in their places. They are real as they are, but we have to understand their limitations and go on to higher understanding or to higher knowledge. Is that right? All right. The mountain, G-d has placed mountains on the Earth to teach man something.
And looking at your skyscrapers, your towers of Babels and whatnot. Go on over to Tibet and look at Mount Everest and you will see that mountain is up so high that you need an oxygen tank almost, to go up there to breathe. And then G-d says another thing to us. Once you get up there, you need heavy clothes, because it's cold, cold, cold, way up there. Is that right? Now you going to mass up material power, but don't try to get so high, man. It's comfortable down here where I put you, is that right? No individual, no society can amass material wealth up high like a mountain. G-d is the one who makes mountains, is that right? And He doesn't make them to be eaten away by material maniacs, by eaters of the material things. He makes those mountains to check the conditions in the weather environment and help keep things in balance, so the climate won't be thrown out of balance. Is that right?
But G-d said, "This is not a sign of materialism in your life, this is a sign of authority in your life." When you get great power and look like a mountain man in material power, use it as an authority. And use it as I use My mountain. You see how I use My mountain? I pile up the wealth and then I make the mountain top cool, so the mountain top attracts water. And when it attracts water, the water runs down the mountain into different temperatures, and washes down the mountain, into the valley and gives riches to the valley below. Gives good grace, pure water to the valley below, is that right? And then when your season gets too hot, man, My mountain causes a cool breeze to blow the hot back home. Is that right? This is G-d. This is G-d.
Now, look, now, man. If you're going to pile up wealth, if you're going to pile up material powers, then understand my mountain and see it not as dust. I don't want you to become poor, materially I don't want you to go on spiritual trip and throw away all that economic power. Don't see it as dust, I sculpted you out of clay and dust and I made you a man, is that right? But G-d says, "I made My man out of the dust." Not the remaining dust, but Moses saw the mountain as dust. He lost what G-d was trying to show him, though He had brought him to see the rational mind, they lost the rational message and that is that you have to keep us all together, that you are given the power to make mountains of wealth and power. But let your mountain stand as my mountain stand. Let it serve the good of the whole society. Let it serve the good of the whole humankind, let it serve the good of the total man. Is that right? All Praise is due to Allah.
All right. Now, they say that Moses was their leader, their emancipator. Now we know the Bible tell us that G-d had made for the Hebrews, for the Bible people many leaders. Adam was their first leader. The man, Adam, is that right? Was their first leader, he fell victim. He fell, but he was their first leader. They are told in the early parts of the Bible, the children of Adam, meaning that their father had authority over them, Adam had authority over them, he was their leader, is that right? Then later, they are called the children of Jacob or Israel. Is that right? Okay. And before that time, He said Abraham was their father. And then Moses came, it was the law and he was established as the leader. They don't call him father, they call him leader. But it means the same. For a father, wherever it is used in the scripture, means leader.
G-d is not interested in your biological father. Your biological father didn't have that much to do with you. You might turn out to be a fool from a wise biological father. And you might turn out to be wise from a foolish biological father. You might turn out to be immoral from a moral biological father, is that right? You might turn out to be spiritual from a physical biological father. So, your father doesn't have any control over your life, isn't that right? All right. Your father has no more control over your life than you give your father, or society gives your father, is that right? But the circumstances are in the hands of G-d. And we never know what things are going to turn out to be, is that right? All Praise is due to Allah. Unless they have the truth. Then we can predict and be accurate. All right.
So, we read in Genesis, when G-d uses Adam in the singular person, then in the next chapter I read of Genesis, G-d uses Adam in the plural person, is that right? He says, not man and woman, but made you.... and named you Adam in the day that you were created. So, He's talking about people now, that's being named Adam, is that right? So, Adam is for the individual and it's also for the collective body, for the people. And in the New Testament, same, when the writer wrote it, they made it the same way, Christ is the man but Christ is also the community, is that right? For Christ says, "I in my Father and you in me." Is that right? So, the body becomes the body of Christ. The body congregation is from the body of Christ. So, he is Christ as an individual and the community that follows Christ are the body of Christ as a community. Is that right? All right.
Now let's go to the Holy Qur'an and see what the Holy Qur'an says about this kind of idea. The Holy Qur'an says that G-d's purpose in creating the universe was to create a leader. That was His purpose. He said, "I'm going to make a leader in the Earth, a Kalifah in the earth." Is that right? All right. According to the wise translation and interpretation of this text, this leader was imagined before even the universe was made, for G-d had conceived this leader before Earth and skies were made. Do you understand? That's why the book says of Jesus, that he is before the world, is that right? And he called himself the world, not in physical form was he before the world, in physical form, he came with the world, the world produced him out of itself, is that right? But an idea in G-d's plan, hours before the physical creation. Is that right?
So, the Bible and the Holy Qur'an says, "The likeness of Jesus is the likeness of the world", is that right? Or as the Bible says it in this way. It says that before, ah pardon me, "That the word was with G-d and the word took on flesh, is that right? Meaning that the plan, the ideas of a man like Jesus was with G-d before the creation, before the Earth and the skies were made. And then in time, the word became a physical man, the idea, the plan became a physical man. Now, G-d says that He's going to a make a Kalifah, His ruler, His leader in the land. And this was His plan. His plan wasn't just to make skies and Earth and give birth to trees and all kinds of plants and all kinds of animals. None of these things have meaning, not in divine sense, unless we have man. And not just ordinary man, we must have true man before all of these things have any meaning. Is that right?
If we don't have true man on Earth, then with rational sense, blind rational sense, we will see this world as an accident, is that right? We will see it as madness. So why has G-d made life to eat itself up? Because that's what life is doing, life is eating itself up. One form of life eat another form of life, is that right? Then why has G-d made all of these things to interact together and keep each other in check and nothing advances, is that right? Because the snow falls today like it did a billion years ago. Is that right? The plant grows today like it did a billion years ago. The brute animal that confines the brute animal instincts, he lives today like he did a billion years ago. But there is something that he crowned the earth with, is that right? Human beings, his men, that rises up out of the clutches of nature, rips at the boundaries of space and gravity, and rises up and looks down on the creation and criticizes it. Goes into the jungle and make it over. Is that right? Looks into life and changes it.
Look at the order of flesh eating flesh and feel sick of it, and begin to study and make plans for how to unify, how to make better this thing that G-d has put into my hand. Is that right? And this was the plan of G-d, is that right? But if G-d hadn't put one superior over this dog-eat-dog kind of creation, we could say, truthfully, that G-d made a mess of things. But if G-d made a mess of things so that that mess would be a challenge to our mind, to make that mind grow bigger and stronger, until it all comes together, then we have to say, both high and loud, Subhanallah, Glorified be G-d above all things, is that right? For His wisdom, is that right? For he knew how to balance creation, create us out of the creation and then create something that has a capacity to deal with that problem in its entirety, is that right?
And the scripture says that He has created you in the Earth as a growth, is that right? As a growth. And His intention is that you grow and that's why you have challenges before you, because He wants you to grow. And if the toll is good, then everything in the toll serves good, is that right? Let me put it in another way. If the end result is good, then every step towards the end serves good, is that right? When life is born, that baby cries, wets on itself, mess on itself, make a lot of noise and disturbs the house, is that right? Gets up on its knees and waddle around on its knees. The horse that was born from the womb today with a baby that start crawling today is walking before that baby learned how to crawl, with parents, is that right? Horse born today. The baby starts crawling today, made its first ever crawl today. That horse is walking and running before that baby can even crawl good.
That's right. Now, but look, that baby has all of those trials and all of those changes to go through. Finally, this baby stands up and look at the horse and say, "Come here, horse. Hey, come here horse. I want to teach you how to run better, run faster, run with more..." I don't know what you call it, dignity, aristocracy, more grace. I want to put you in the hall of fame, horse, is that right? Or make you dance and walk sideways with dignity and grace, is that right? All right. So, we have to say, "Glory be to G-d who knows all things." When He says He's going to make Himself a leader, a ruler and put him in the light, what is this leader, is this a dictator? Someone who is invincible, someone who can't be trusted? No, indeed. The real power is G-d, always. But this one will become a ruler among his people in that he had the power of G-d in G-d's knowledge, that He has blessed him with, is that right? But he is still a human being. So, you have to question him when you need to question him. Is that right?
And he, on the human being level, because he is by nature and by make, a human being. So, he can't think of himself as creator, no more than one that has been made creator by the Creator who is all powerful to create, is that right? So, the Holy Qur'an says, "Allah, He is "Ahsana Kaliqin. He is "Ahsana Kaliqin." Which means He is the best or the Supreme over all creators. You understand? So, the Holy Qur'an has not told us that there is no creator beside G-d. No. It says that G-d is the best, the greatest, the supreme over all creators. He is "Al Khaliq" which means, best, supreme over all creators, is that right? Why is He the best? Because He is "Al Fatir." He is the one who originated, who started things out from the very beginning. And not only is He the originator who start things out from the very beginning, but He is the one who was never absent from His work. The one who starts something out from the very beginning and is never absent from His work. Knows everything from the beginning to the end and has been responsible for everything that has been created. Is that right?
So, all creators belong to Him and all creators have gotten their ability to create from the source, the Creator who has power over all things, is that right? All right. So, G-d makes His ruler to have authority in the land among people. But that ruler is one who also sits with his people and listens to his people. G-d guides him, but G-d does not tell him, that "I'm going to guide you, now stick your fingers in your ears and let Me guide you." No. G-d never told any Prophet, never told any Messenger that I'm going to guide you, put your fingers in your ears, you don't need any other guide. G-d says, "I guide you from Myself, but I also guide you from everything in My creation. I'm the one who speaks from everywhere and out of knowing everything." Is that right? All Praises be to Allah. I might guide a butterfly to rise up in a certain way and say something to your mind. So, man, when a butterfly catches your attention, listen. I might speak through the movements of that butterfly. Is that right? It was G-d. Now, how much more can we listen to people of the creation that is on our level?
If G-d sent a Prophet out in the wilderness or up in the mountains to listen to the sounds of the nature, is that right? To look at the nature and listen to the sounds in the nature in order to get G-d's message speaking through nature to him, how much more can man listen to the fact that G-d has made him a power over nature, human beings, is that right? Okay. So, Prophet Muhammad, before he made a decision, he wouldn't make it and say, "I have G-d guiding me, I don't have to listen to nothing you got to say." "G-d said do such and such and that's it." Prophet Muhammad called the people together. He said, "Look, we have to do such and such." Let's hear from the people. What do you have to say about that? This is the universal Prophet Muhammad. The seal of the Prophets, the one who ends the movements of Prophets, or ends the orders of Prophets, that one. He said, "Let's hear what they people have to say." In the Islamic language, this is called Shuraa, which means consensus of opinion.
Don't think that this world has invented all of these powerful ideas and principles and whatnot, that they have. They have stolen them from G-d. And as you're reading the Holy Qur'an, I'm sure you will recognize that avenue. You ran into most of the knowledge that you see in the Constitution and see in the language of the leaders of government, that they pretend that they came upon with it all by themselves. You ran into it in a book that is almost 1000 years older than America, is that right? All right. So, G-d's ruler is not a dictator, G-d is the dictator and He dictates through His perfect truth. And we who accept this perfect truth, we accept to follow the exact dictates. Is that right? But the individual himself is never the dictator. Don't think I'm going to follow this because the Chief Minister said it. No. Say, "I'm going to follow this because Allah has said it." And any time what the Chief Minister say doesn't sound like what Allah says, say, "I'm going to hold this until it's either shows up to be right or wrong."
When it shows up to be right, I'm going to follow it. But if it shows up to be wrong, I'm going to reject it. That's what we do. But if you are convinced that I am speaking the truth and imploring the will of G-d, and that will is in the book. Man, tell them what I say. But if you are not sure, I say wait until you can be sure. This is Ramadan fast, and I got hoarse, and you can't drink water. But don't worry, we got a good mic. If I have to, I can start whispering and you will still be able to hear. Now since we have now established our belief for any believer, see a doubter can never see anything, do you know that? Do you know why America became so powerful and great? Because America was not a doubter. I'm not saying it was holy, it was shameful. And until just recently, America was a big sinner, the devil in physical form.
But America, even as a devil, was not a doubter. America had faith, is that right? The people who came here had faith that if they follow the direction of the astronomers who said the Earth was round and not flat, that they believe in that idea and follow the direction of the astronomers and the geography, that they were going to land in a place that they didn't have a map for, is that right? Now there's some of you doubters among us who say, "Give me a map first and then I'll follow you." They would have never had America if a man hadn't believed that there was a place out there, before a map was made for it, is that right? But then the power of knowledge, it was strong enough to create hope and faith, they moved. So you know what we're saying, that all belief is knowledge in some degree. We can't have belief with no knowledge at all, but once you have belief that is indication that some knowledge can reach the mind, do you understand?
So don't let people tell you, "Oh, you one of those religious people. You believe. I don't want no believe, I want some know." Tell that that belief was stronger than your know when it started in the Mesopotamia or wherever it was, with Abraham. And we a long ways from that day and time. So, I will believe there's much more know than the brilliance of your know. So, we have to have faith. We have to have some faith. We have to have some belief. If we're doubters, we're not going to see anything, because doubt closes the eyes, you understand? Now isn't that the justice that is just? If G-d does something good and it's good enough in its first appearance to move you to act on the good that you saw, maybe it's not enough good to convince you in your total being, but it was enough good to make you move a jot. Is that right?
Now, if you don't move a jot, if you are a doubter and have no faith at all in that little bit of knowledge or truth that you are able to spy or envision in some degree behind a hazy truth. Is that right? So many men go into the haze, into the fog, is that right? Into the maze, is that right? Looking for something that they hope will be there, is that right? And if men have had enough faith to break into the fog. Is that right? To pull away the layers, they would never have found the great treasures that we have in life today. Is that right? Now likewise of G-d, if Almighty G-d show us something good and we see that it's good, if it's behind the haze or behind the fog, behind the entanglements of our taught knowledge. Your vision will project a false image over the truth that G-d showed to you, until that truth is able to correct your vision. Once that truth correct your vision, then the problems are limited, you are put between G-d's truth and yourself, something unreal. Is that right?
But nobody is going to see G-d's truth plainly as it is, when it first comes to them, because G-d truth come to them to correct their vision, is that right? To sharpen their focus, to enable them to see clearly for themselves. So don't think that you're going to see all the way when the truth come. No. The truth is the beginning of life, the beginning of the rising of the sun, the sunlight of your vision, is that right? All right. So, trust G-d in the dawn of the day. Is that right? Get up before the chirping bird and go out and meet G-d before the sun hit the horizon. Believe in Him, in that you have seen His dawn, believe that a sun rise is going to be around in just an hour or so. Is that right? All Praises is due to Allah. So, we have to have faith. The people have to have faith in the leader, and the leader have to have faith in the people. G-d made Prophets and G-d has said Himself, and has guaranteed them, brother, that the guidance is true and correct all the way.
Guaranteed them that nobody can kill you, man, until I say, "Sit down and die." G-d guarantees that to His Prophets. Do you understand? And these Prophets with this guarantee, you still want you to sit down on the floor. And this is the truth, is that right? This is all the truth. Don't go to G-d and ask him for faith. Is that right? So, G-d has given every human being a bit of His inspiration. The Holy Qur'an says, "Not only to Prophets, but to every human being, G-d gives a piece of His "Ruh"." Now "Ruh" means the inspiration of G-d, divine inspiration that enables a person to see with a power greater than his own power It enables you to see with a power greater than even your rational power. For your rational power, if they don't have a clear field of light to work in, they still in darkness. And people can establish rational bases that are built out of darkness and falsehood. You hear that? Just because the method was rational or just because the process was rational, don't think you're going to end up with the truth.
That's why they logically teach you, you must follow the rules of logic, plus have a rational mind, is that right? A rational mind is not enough, you must have a rational mind and then follow the rules and principles of logic, is that right? And then they don't guarantee to you you're going to come up with the facts. They say, "But this is a pretty safe guess." Is that right? All right. So, Islam is not taking on the shape of the world. Islam is doing exactly what it has done since time began, it is shaping the world. The ignorant ones among us, they say, "There go the Chief Minister, sounding like a white man, sounding like the United States of America. He should be sitting in the White House instead of in the Mosque or the temple. That shows you how much you yet need to know. Our Elijah Muhammad said, "What this world has given you, put it in a garbage pail." A waste-basket, is that right? And he said, "Then use the waste-basket to beat the hell out of them." Isn't that what he said?
He said, "Because all that they have give to you amounts to trash." Is that right? Now, let me explain to you so you won't have the same old foolish idea, perhaps, that you had yesterday. He said, "Put it in a pail." He didn't say, "Throw it away." He didn't say, "Burn it up." He said, "Put it in a pail, a trash pail. Don't go throw it out, leave it in the pail, then use the pail to wail the hell out of the enemy." Isn't that what he said? All right. What does he mean by that? That now that your eyes have come open to truth, don't check your mind. Don't pretend like the things that have hurt you never existed. Accept them and then take them and throw them back in the face of the society that gave them to you. Show him the corruption in his Christianity that he gave you. Show it to him. Make him see it. Then put it into a pail and using the pale to wail the hell out of them. Is that right?
Show them the false financial guidance that they gave you, show them the financial blocks that there was against you to keep you down on the bottom of the pail. Put it in a pail and use it to wail the hell out of them, is that right? But that man that said that also said this. And let me tell you, I never told you that that man wasn't a great man. I never told you that that man wasn't a wise man. I never told you that that man was a man not worthy of being preserved in the leadership of the Nation of Islam. But I have told you that that man is a Master, is that right? All right. Now listen, he also told us, "While you are putting your bad things in the pail and using them against the very man who gave them to you, or the very society that gave them to you also watch that man. He watched. You can learn from him." Isn't that what he said? All right.
And he said, "Yes." There are lots of times where we said we want to get out of America, we want to establish a home back in Africa where our forefathers come from. He said, "But now I tell you that we can do it here in America." Is that right? And he gradually moved us more and more into an image that is acceptable in America, is that right? He gradually made us business minded, dollar minded. Is that right? He gradually made us community minded, he gradually made us civic minded and political minded. He even talked of backing a political nominee, a candidate, if they'll prove themselves worthy of our people, is that right? And even okayed financial contributions to help certain brothers that we don't want to name right now, but they'll tell, one day, I hope. He even helped them financially, is that right? All right. So, let's keep our eyes open. They say, "The Chief minister has destroyed everything." I haven't destroyed everything. We're remaking everything. Now you just been hanging around, I understand it if you leave, don't worry. But we going to be here for another 20 or 30 minutes.
All right, now. If G-d's purpose in making creation was to establish a leader, then what does this tell us? That G-d is a Generous G-d. G-d is a Merciful G-d. G-d is a G-d that can't exist by Himself without sharing what He has. And you will find that the strongest power in creation, and they're going to charge me now, with even Christianity, the strongest power in creation is compassion. Compassion. Brothers, let a man rise up in anger and hate and he'll tear down the world, he'll kill everything. We see anger and violence as the strongest force in creation, because when the tornadoes and whatnot come, when the earthquakes and the volcanoes overfill, these things sound stronger and louder and affect life more than the quiet, merciful and compassionate things that are going on in creation all the time, is that right? So man thinks that hatred, violence and anger are the forces of creation. But a spiritually guided man, he discovers a stronger discipline. Check your wild passion, is that right? Restraining your wild spirit, is that right? And then you will become a force stronger than any mountain on Earth. Is that right?
This is what the wise doctor of religion, the wise sages and whatnot, they told man this thousands, thousands of years ago, because they discovered something that was quiet but stronger than the loud noises of creation, is that right? All right. Now, what is anger in man? What is anger in man? Anger is compassion unraveling itself. Compassion is strong, brother. It's stronger than anything in creation, but when it unravels itself, its strength is dissipated and we see the force of compassion in destruction and say, "Look how strong destruction is." No. Look how strong compassion is. Even when it's dying, it tears up things, is that right? But if we keep it together, it pulls things together. It builds things, it nurtures things, it gives health to things, but if we unravel compassion, it will destroy things. Is that right? All right. The strongest thing in creation, I repeat, is compassion. That's why the Holy Qur'an keep repeating "Bismillah Ar Rahma Nir Raheem." The Generous, the Compassionate, the Generous, the Compassionate, the Generous, the Compassionate. Is that right?
G-d is saying, "Look, man. Look, woman. I am G-d, the Generous, the Compassionate, the Generous, the Compassionate, the Generous, the Compassionate." All right. If you don't do no more than take on these two attributes of mine, you will come out of your misery. You will come out of your misery. You will make the world, if you will just take on these two oft repeated names of Mine, let them saturate your nature and your being. Let the saying, the guide of My two attributes cover your fiber through and through, plus mind and spirit and man, just accept these true colors of your being, you will come out of all your misery. The Holy Qur'an says, "Allah's baptism is the best baptism." He doesn't baptize with clear water, He put dye in his water. The dye of divine attributes. Who would want to look at plain colors all the time? We like a colorful life and G-d gives us a colorful life with many attributes in the water. That is the water of Islam, and all of these attributes, all of these that dyed in this water are the attributes, are the qualities and descriptions of Almighty G-d. Isn't that a wonderful religion?
What religion can be better than that? No human being can dream of a religion better than that. Not unless you want to put it into reality. You can't dream of a religion better than Islam. Now, brothers and sisters. Now that we have seen G-d's purpose and explained in that He is trying to establish leadership. That's His aim, to establish leadership. Leadership that will be a reflector of His own power in office. Do you understand? And if that leadership reflect His power in office, then G-d's Mercy, His Generosity, will move. Not only to the heart. For I believe even the dirt, dead earth, as we call it dead. Even the dead moon, as we call it dead. I believe that this couldn't exist without sensing the Compassion, the Mercy of G-d. Do you understand what I'm saying? I'm not a spook, I don't believe in other realities. I believe in reality. But on the basis of reality, I tell you how I see it. I believe that a dead rock, a dead grain of sand, I believe that it exists in the presence of G-d's Compassion. But G-d is a Generous G-d. He didn't say, "Let me make flesh." He doesn't say, "Let-"


