05/01/1977
IWDM Study Library
Chicago IL

By Imam W. Deen Mohammed
All Praise is due to Allah. The Lord Sustainer of all the Worlds. May Peace and blessings be upon Muhammad, His servant and Messenger, the last Messenger to all the world. Dear beloved people, brothers and sisters, we are grateful to President Assad of Syria, to the Syrian government and especially to our brother, the ambassador who has come here to personally dedicate this Minbar, the ambassador, Safa Kafbani. We have also with us today the officer of the Moroccan Tourist office, Brother Baqi Lin Baseer. We thank Allah for bringing us into Islam, a religion that gives you brothers and sisters all over the world, from all nations and all races. In fact, in Islam we don't see humanity as races. We see humanity as tribes and families making one family, and that is the human family. I hope one day InShallah soon. We say InShallah we mean G-d willing. And that's a Christian expression too. G-d willing. InShallah means G-d willing, except if G-d allows it, we can't do it. I hope to go up on the Minbar and deliver Khutbah, the speech on Friday, InShallah. Now, normally on Sunday, we don't give our talk from the Minbar, I usually stand here, but I think I should go up there today since it was dedicated. So I will go up and at least deliver part of the address for this afternoon.
With the Name of Allah, Most Gracious, Most Merciful. Dear beloved people, Muslim brothers and sisters, this Minbar that I am now addressing you from comes from a Masjid, a Mosque, in a country that also has the remains of Bilal, the first Muezzin of Prophet Muhammad, Peace and blessings be Upon him. And I've been informed just here recently that a new Masjid,, a new Mosque is being built and dedicated to Bilal. This Masjid is being constructed on the site of the mausoleum of Bilal, May Allah be pleased with him. If we Muslims just keep our eyes open, our hearts right, we'll understand without any doubt that this is certainly a day of the revival of truth all over the world and that Allah has certainly favored the Bilali looking people to be in the forefront of this new revival of religion in the West and all over the world.
There is a saying of Prophet Muhammad, Peace and blessings be Upon him. He said of Bilal that he heard some steps walking ahead of him in the paradise. And he said, do you know whose steps those were? And they said no. He said they were the steps of Bilal. I take this Hadith to mean that the Muslims would again be led or called to worship by Bilali people. Well, there's also another saying of Prophet Muhammad. He said that my Umma, my community, will return to its first supporters. And it's first supporters were poor slave people. And Bilal. And the very sincere and devoted companions of his. So we see today that the new leadership for Islam, it is coming from people who have been denied equality and dignity on this earth. And it's coming from devoted, sincere, dedicated, selfless Muslims and the many states or many parts of countries of the world. We don't have the majority of the people with us. We don't have the majority of Muslims with us throughout the world. The majority are sleep, spiritually sleep. But we do have a minority of strong people like those companions of Prophet Muhammad. And I do believe that the ambassador to the United States, the Syrian ambassador with us today is one of those people.
And I do believe that our Moroccan brother who's here with us today is one of those people. And I believe that Dr. Tijani and Shaikh Harkan, who will be visiting us InShallah here today are among those people. With strong, sincere brothers in Islam joining us and encouraging us to keep moving with our propagation here in the United States, we now have the combination that existed in the day of Prophet Muhammad, Peace and Blessings be upon him. The combination of all the races, though they be few, Abu Bakr, Ali and the few companions, they were the ones who gave Prophet Muhammad support.
And it was 11 years or more before there was any big change for Prophet Muhammad and his few followers. Most of those 11 years he was rejected by the Meccans. He were rejected by his own people. It was just those very few companions of his and his wife, Kadija, his nephew Ali, his friend Abu Bakr. Just a handful of people, and Prophet Muhammad and Bilal, the Ethiopian, the Ethiopian slave, and a number of other slaves. There were more slaves, there were more slaves and rejected people in the company or serving the community of Prophet Muhammad as supporters than there were free people when he began his mission.
So we may say that it was the down and out people that gave Islam its first membership or its first congregation except for a few followers of the Meccan people of the Arabs, such as the great Abu Bakr, the great Ali, the great Omar Ibn Khattab. Lady Kadija, the wife of the Prophet, may Allah be pleased with them. Except for these few people, the supporters were people that were looked down on as inferiors because of their Afro features, African features or because of their poor helpless state in the society. So we see that there is certainly a natural way for human beings to come to life in truth. There has to be some fertile soil for real life to grow in. And that fertile soul has always been sincere, selfless, dedicated people who are ready to give up their wealth, ready to give up their place in society, ready to give up everything. And accompanying them have always been those persons who were denied the opportunity to participate as equals with other people in the society.
It is the poor, the rejected, the starved out people that have an ear and they listen to G-d. Not all of them, many of the poor are destroyed. They're turned around, they're made deaf, dumb and blind. Their senses are destroyed, even their moral senses are destroyed. But it is always among the poor and rejected people that righteous movements find a big following and strong supporters. And I think today that we are especially blessed because we have suffered more than 300 centuries of enslavement, being rejected as human beings, being described by the educators and leaders of social science and psychology in this world as subhuman. But all Praise is due to Allah, those who were called subhuman for 300 years are now proven that they are superhuman in the United States when it comes to moral and spiritual excellence. We the subhumans of yesterday are proving today that we are the superhumans in the United States of America
At home today, my son, he asked me, he said, "Daddy, when are you going to stand up on top of the Minbar?" I said, Well, that Minbar is made for a Mosque, a Masjid bigger than ours. I say, it's made so that if there was thousands of people, they could see me and I could see them. I said, well, we only have a few. I said, I can stand down there and they can see me. He said, "Well daddy, I can't see you." So I said, well, I didn't know he was that short, that small and that hid back there. And my daughter Ingina, she said, "Daddy, I never see you."
I didn't know that standing down here, there was some people back there couldn't see me. I thought I could see everybody back there. But some of the little children, they say they have to look around the heads of the grownups or just be denied the opportunity of looking at the Imam while he is speaking. One thing I like about this Minbar, it keeps me from looking directly at you. I can just look at the wood here. And sometimes we need a screen before us and the people you know. The Bible say Moses talked from behind the veil. Well, I'm going to come down now if you don't mind.
We have many traditions that carry great messages if we only had the knowledge to unlock the message in those traditions. You know the people in religion, they have been taught of a heaven and a hell or of a earth and a heaven. And Jesus prayer he said, Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. And we as adopted, and I say adopted because the Bible used this term, we as adopted people in the religion of Christianity. We have never been given the knowledge of the two heavens of the Bible.
There are two heavens, and it's not just in Christianity or Judaism. You can go to many nations of the world who will believe in religion, who believe in spiritual worship and you'll find them believing in a earthly heaven as well as a spiritual heaven, a heaven on earth as well as a heaven after what we call physical death. So in scripture, when you are reading about heaven, many times you are only reading about the leadership in religion. the leadership in the religion, they represent the heaven. And when they come down here with the masses and sacrifice their high position in heaven, that is called coming down from heaven to earth.
And Jesus was one who was never in the heaven of the Jews, but he was lifted up to heaven by G-d. And then he preached among the people called the poor, the unlearned, or what we would call today the grassroots people or the masses. He taught among them. So he was one from another world teaching in a world that was not his own. And that's what he said. He said, this world is not mine because G-d had lifted him up to a higher world. And then he had come down and sacrificed his peace, his happiness in that world to live among sinners so that their lives would be lifted up too to that heaven. And he prayed, Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven.
His prayer was to G-d, that was for G-d to bring the leadership down to earth. And when you read the Bible, you see a trend there, a movement. There is a movement from Genesis to Revelation. The Satan, the enemy of G-d, he's moving up trying to get to heaven. Not because he want to be heavenly, but because he wants to rule heaven and earth. So the enemy of G-d, he's trying to get up to heaven. And the Prophet of G-d, he's trying to bring heaven down to the people, you see. So those are the two movements. Please don't clap. It takes time and we have a schedule here today that we have to obey. Alright. Praise be to G-d, the Guardian Sustainer of all the worlds.
So when we understand these two movements, then we understand the heaven that you should be living in now as well as the heaven you should prepare to enter at the end of time. It's more important for us to bring heaven down to earth than it is for us to just give our whole life to hoping and praying and wishing for our heaven after the earth is no more. Most of those who put all of the importance, two places all the importance on the heavens when the earth is no more, they neglect to do their job on this earth, and they leave their lives to the forces of wickedness and to a hell on earth. The key to coming out of hell on earth is the knowledge that earth is also prepared by G-d to be turned into a heaven for people.
We are told that there once was a paradise, a garden, and that the mankind, ancestors, our ancient ancestors, our first ancestors, they lived in a paradise. That G-d put them in a garden, into a paradise. We weren't told that they had to be killed before coming into that paradise. We were told that G-d put them into that paradise and that mistakes, weakness and wickedness caused them to lose their place in that paradise. So this is simple. This is simple teaching. The only thing we have to do to bring that paradise again or to put ourselves again in a paradise, is to stop behaving wickedly in the earth and turn our hearts completely to G-d and give our life completely to His cause and obey Him. And don't listen to the whispers of the devil. Don't listen to the temptations of flesh, but give ourselves wholly to Almighty G-d and we can reverse this thing and put ourselves again in a garden or in a paradise on earth.
In the last of the Bible called the Revelation, a city is seen coming down from the sky to the earth, a city of equality and justice. A city of light. Says that the city was built cubicle or had a lot of squares in it, 12 times 12, a lot of squares in it. What does this mean? It means equality. It was a city of equality. And then it says that its measurement was a hundred and forty four, twelve and 144. What does this mean? 12 represents the whole world. Universalism. We have 12 hours in the day. We have 12 signs in the zodiacs. The zodiacs is the clock or the sign in the heavens, in the sky, for that universe, for this one we belong to. Okay. And the 12 hours, that's the cycle of day and we have 12 hours for night. They don't always fall exactly in that center proportion, but we give 12 for night and 12 per day.
So 12 stands for the whole world, for all the hours of the day and for the whole world. And the Bible is only saying that there's coming a time when the whole world is going to come into one truth and that truth is going to be G-d's truth, Almighty G-d's truth. And that the whole world is going to live the whole life. All the hours of the day is going to be spent in that life, not six hours to something and six hours to another, but all the hours shall be given to G-d and all the world shall come to G-d. And a community based on G-d, the worship of one G-d, obedience to His laws, reflecting His truth, a community of light lit with the truth of G-d is going to come down from the sky as a hope of the people, to the earth as a reality for the people.
This is the scripture that you have. This is what the scripture that you have, you Christians and Jews, the scripture that you have tell you these things. Allah revealed the Qur'an, the last and complete and perfect revelation to Prophet Muhammad. Peace and blessings be Upon him. And this Qur'an makes these things perfectly clear. But unless you know how to read the Qur'an, and unless you are blessed by G-d to get the benefits from that book, you won't see that the Holy Qur'an is telling more clearly, telling more plainly without the problems, without the confusion, without the corruption. The Qur'an is telling it perfectly clear without any problem the same thing that the Bible tells us, and that is that man was made by nature to live a good life and to give his soul and his whole life to his Creator.
But deceivers, wicked forces in life take the man away from his nature. And when man is taken away from his original nature or taken away from his G-d-given nature, he fall under the artificial forces of the society. And those artificial forces, those lying concepts, those lying ideologies, those false corrupt ideas, philosophies, and ideologies, they begin to feed the mind of the man and takes his nature further and further away from that that G-d established him in from the very beginning. And G-d has to send His Messengers to correct the problem. But as fast as His Messengers come to correct the problem, the wicked forces tried to crucify, tried to assassinate, tried to kill and shed the blood of truth that that Messenger brought.
So G-d sends another one behind him, bring it back again. And another one bring it back again. And this is to continue according to scripture, according to old scripture, until the end of time. Until the wicked has spent all of their energy and don't have any energy left to contend with G-d. The Bible call this the fullness of the Gentiles. When the Gentiles shall have reached their fullness. The Gentiles have no power of their own to bring themselves into fullness. It is the forces of Judaism combined with the lie of a Jacobite. People that brings the Gentiles to their fullness. They can't bring themselves to their fullness. It is the wicked forces in so-called Judaic scripture that have brought the Gentiles to their fullness. And what is this fullness? The fullness to the brim of moral decadence, of spiritual decadence, of lies and corruption, of racism and white supremacy. All of these things have been forced on the ignorant Gentile world by the hidden poison in so-called Judaic scriptures. Those subtle, hidden poisons that go under surface.
They don't go on surface, they go under the surface. If they come out from under the ground and go on the surface, they come up as angels of light. So they cover their false wicked image with false appearance of holiness. And the Bible say that the dragon, that old Satan, the devil transformed himself into an angel of light. And the book says that he aspired, his aim was to sit on the very seat or the very throne of heaven. And he got himself up into the pulpit of Almighty G-d, and presented himself as an angel of light. What is an angel in the Bible? The angel is a Messenger of truth. Light means truth, religious truth. So here that's Satan. He kept working until he got himself in the position where the people respect him and worship him and follow his word as though he is the Messenger of G-d's truth. Now look, I'm telling you what your Bible tells you in plain language. Now, I ask you, in case you have some problems, I ask you what would be your plan if you were Satan and you wanted to take people from G-d. Wouldn't your best plan would be to put yourself in the image of G-d's angel? Wouldn't your best plan would be to present yourself as a priest?
If you were the Satan and you had the power to plan how to take over G-d's rule, then you would try to get in and infiltrate G-d's kingdom, infiltrate the heaven of G-d, infiltrate the church leadership. Or if there was no church in your time, then you would plan how to build yourself a church and put your people over your church and dress them in the angel light of G-d.
Our world has come under the forces of Satan. I'm not talking about the Satan that primitive people believe in. I'm not talking about a Satan that you identify in a migraine headache, or in an arthritic pain that you can't explain, or in insanity that you find in some child and some member in the community. I'm talking about the Satan mind that is clever, very clever, rational in its own darkness, a cold, sharp calculator that exist in human bodies and never have existed in anything but human bodies. This is the Satan we are talking about. Man, long, long time ago overcome the Satan in headaches, in rheumatism and in mental disease. Long time ago we overcame that Satan, we identified him as psychological problems, chemical problems, muscular problems, et cetera, et cetera. But there's a Satan that the world has yet to identify and understand. And that's that Satan that wanted to capture G-d's kingdom, capture the righteous forces on earth and present himself as the leader of those righteous forces to guarantee him and his service that G-d will never be a problem for us anymore. And that is what has happened. Look what is happening to our religion here today. You go to the church and the church is nothing but a shell.
There is no spiritual force in it. Long time ago, they had to use tambourines, drum, bugles horns, to drum up, drum up some spirit because there was no force in the word. Now they bring jazz in, acid, rock, witchcraft, fornication, adultery, alcoholism, dope. Not all of them, but I'm telling you what I know of some churches. Some are pushing dope and most of them promote alcoholism. Communion tempts the weak person to drink. He see the priest drinking wine. He thinks, "Good G-d almighty, sure wish I had another bottle that old good four roses" or whatever they call it.
So when he see the priest drinking the holy wine, he remembers his sinful wine. The holy wine has the effect of making us remember the sinful wine. This didn't just happen. Satan has been moving against religion for a long, long time. His way is to corrupt the religion. His way is to corrupt it and take away your conscience so that you don't have any guilty conscience while you are living a corrupt life. His way is to make you feel comfortable as an adulterer, as a fornicator, as a liar, as a thief, as a deceiver. His way is to make you feel comfortable like that and still identify with Christianity, with Christ.
This society that we live in is a so-called Christian society. It identifies with Christ, but it has more divorces, more rapes, more adultery, fornication, more murder. There is more of all the major crimes happening in so-called Christian society than there are happening in the rest of the world combined. Isn't this evidence, isn't this clear evidence that Satan has taken over this so-called Christian life? Our life is not Christlike. Our life is devil like. We give ourselves as slaves to the rule of racism, to the rule of divisiveness, discrimination. To the rule of corruption, moral corruption, spiritual corruption, family corruption. We give ourselves to the rule of that. How many of us have the courage to even come up here and just repeat what I'm saying?
How many of us have the courage to go home in the privacy of your own home and repeat what I'm saying? Soon as you leave here you'll get fear on you. The hope is going to go out of you like a fizzle of wind. You don't have any more hope, no more. Your strength is just robbed of you the moment I stop talking. You have been conditioned to believe that righteousness have no hope in this world, that truth have no hope in this world, that obedience to G-d has no hope in this world. You have been programmed and conditioned to obey the devil whether you like it or not.
Pitiful enslaved people. There was no slave ever existed on the plantation any more slave than you are right here today. Those that scratch their heads, Yassa boss, Yassa boss. They weren't as much of a slave as you are. Many of them had the courage to pray to G-d for a deliverer right in the face of the slave master and they were whipped for doing so. But many of them still had the love and the faith in righteousness and in a righteous G-d that they were seen praying again and the slave master had to whip them over and over again. He had to kill some of 'em to stop them from praying for a deliverer who would show them a way into righteousness and truth.
You are more a coward today than your slave parents were. You don't have the faith to even pray for what I'm telling you. You don't. Don't have the backbone. You don't have the courage to pray for what I'm telling you. If you would just stand out on the streets, stand out there on Madison and State and say, "Oh G-d, please stop religion from acting against our lives. Please stop the white Jesus on the cross from making us feel inferior. Please stop it from enslaving the minds and robbing the minds of black people. Please remove the white image of divinity from our communities." You don't have the courage to pray this.
I tell you over and over, you don't have your own mind. If you had your own mind, you would respond like you got your own mind. You got an artificial mind, an artificial mind that has been made for you and put in the atmosphere for you to breathe into your head. And that's what you have done. You have breathed into your head an artificial mind that works against your very wellbeing, works against the nature, your nature to grow and overcome your problem. You can't grow. You can't overcome your problem because the leader in your body is an artificial mind that works for the slave masters of this world.
I'm not talking about slave masters that want your physical arms and your physical legs in shackles. I'm talking about much greater slave masters. I'm talking about giants in the history of slave masters who know how to shackle your senses, shackle your morals, shackle your spirit and keep you weak and inferior as a man and a woman, as a human being. Look at the brother Renalt Robinson who spoke to us today and told us that we have to get more better responses from our government, that they don't have our wellbeing at heart, that they are not going to protect our families. They are not going to protect our moral life. They're not going to protect our spiritual life. They're not going to stimulate economic development in our communities. He's telling us that there's no hope for you unless you exert your power, exert your forces. I don't care how small they are, how weak your forces are. He's telling you unless you exert the little power you have to irritate these people who are comfortable in their seats on your back, you are not going to get any place. That's what he's telling you. That's what he came here and told you.
That's his message. He's working with us. I don't mean he's under our community, but he's a person who recognized the problem. He's fighting the same problem that we recognize and that we are fighting, but he is fighting them from his own office and from his own plans. We're fighting them from our office and from our plans. I thank Allah that he is fighting too. But if he saw the power of what I'm doing, he would leave his office and he would join me and he would go out as bravely as he came in here. He would go out into the churches and if they wouldn't let him in, he'd carry a plaque demonstrating a poster speaking what he want to say, and he would stand out there and he would demonstrate. He would force the word on their mind until they heard it.
What is that word? We are not under the forces of police, police captains. We are not under the forces of Mayors and Governors and the army of the United States. We are not under the forces of the President. We are under the forces of a diabolical message that's in your Bible as a loaded gun to blow your damn brains out. And that's exactly what that message, that hidden message in the Bible has done. It has blown the brains out of the Western world leadership. So they give themselves to anything. They obey any wicked force. They don't know G-d. They don't know the power of G-d. Long ago they gave themselves to forces other than the powers of G-d. They trusted false images of G-d, false concepts of G-d. They trusted concepts of G-d, images of G-d that satisfied their weakness, their weakness, their weakness for racial superiority in the earth.
They bought an image of G-d that looks like themselves from a wicked people that gave them that image so that their power would be limited to themselves. If I worship a G-d in my image, I can't grow any bigger than that image. I have to have the proper image of G-d to grow bigger than that image. So if you give a Caucasian an image of G-d that is Caucasian, that Caucasian will never be able to grow bigger than a Caucasian, I don't care how much he loves G-d, I don't care how spiritual he becomes, he'll never be nothing but a Caucasian because when he prays, he's looking at a Caucasian. He calls him Christ. He calls him Christ. He calls him the son of G-d. He calls him a spiritual savior, but when he looks at him, he sees a flesh savior in his own image. So how can that Caucasian grow bigger than his own image when he doesn't have anything bigger than his own image to look at when he prays. And how can you, who don't look like that image grow at all when you are looking at that image and praying?
If Allah bless me, I'm going to rail the hell out of your brain until you wake up. Allah has blessed us with understanding, with the keys to the wicked plots that this world's leadership which has been the devil leadership. He has blessed us with the keys to their wicked plots. Now we are exposing their wicked plots. They had the power to tell you the truth, give it to you right in your eyes and deny the power of your vision to see it. Give you the truth right in your eyeballs and then deaden the power of your sight to see that truth. The Bible tells you, make no images of G-d, say, make no engraving images of G-d. Form nothing, form nothing as an image of G-d. That's what the Bible tells you. But you go to your church and you pray to G-d in His son Jesus and there he is as a white man on a cross. And you give your money, I don't know how much it is, and you light up candles in your Catholic church and you pray to saints who are also in the image of earthly things. And G-d said in the Bible, make no image. That was one of the commandments, one of the basic commandments of G-d that you make no image of Him. Now, this world has tricked the people and gotten them to accept an image exalted, lifted up high. Here is the body of Christ. Do you accept G-d's son Jesus?
I have to think about it. You better wake up fast or be damned. Excuse us. We had to greet our brothers. They have a flight so they have to be getting out. They have to get back to Washington. So we thank Allah for their visit here today. We thank them for coming down and making this really a historic and great occasion for us.
Now let me continue. Knowing that G-d has said make no image of G-d, an image was made and given to the people. An image worse than a stone or a piece of wood or fire. If we were bowing down in the church before a bowl of fire like many of the ancient people used to do and saw G-d in the image of a flame, it would be less destructive in our lives than the image that the world is bowing down to now. Why a flame? I can identify with a flame just as you can identify with a flame. You get no more courage from identifying with a flame than I, but if you are Caucasian and you bow down to a Caucasian image of G-d and I am Bilalian and I bow down to that same image of G-d, you get more encouragement because you look like that image.
I don't get the same encouragement. When I look at you. if I don't get jealous, I become fearful of you. I say, "This man, he looks like G-d." Theirs a slave by the name of Julia. She said, of the cruel Caucasian slave masters, she said they looked like G-d in the face but act like the devils in their hearts. Now listen to what this slave said. This is in a book written by a German I think, but published here in America, a book on slavery. I can't recall the title of the book, but we can get it if you demand it. We can look it up. This book, in this book the author, he's reporting what this slave woman said. She said, these cruel people, Caucasian slave masters, she said they looked like G-d in the face but act like the devils in their hearts.
That woman was speaking from a truth that was speaking quietly in her consciousness. I don't believe she understood what she was saying, but she was speaking from a truth. And that truth is this- That when we look at Jesus to reach G-d, we can't see beyond Jesus, to see G-d. Who have seen G-d? Nobody. Who have seen Jesus? Everybody. Because they have made a Caucasian image of Jesus for all of us to see. When Christians get in trouble, especially those who bought the concept wholly, just in it's total package. When they get in trouble, who do they call on? Do they say G-d the Father? They say, Oh Lordy Jesus.
Oh Lordy Jesus. I used to hear old folks in my neighborhood singing in their home. I could pass by their home and hear them singing, Jesus, my savior, Jesus, my Lord Jesus, my deliverer Jesus. What was the image of that Jesus? A yellow haired, blue eyed, frailed body Caucasian on a cross. Now that we have preached so hard against racism, they have stopped making so many blue eyed, blonde haired Jesuses. They're making 'em now so they look more Jewish, dark hair and brown eyes. But you among us right here in this audience. You will bear me witness that you used to see blue eyed Jesus and a yellow haired Jesus. Blonde haired Jesus on the cross. They're not so popular now, but they used to be very popular. Why did they put that Jesus in a pure Caucasian? Why did they want him to look as far from Bilalian as they possibly could make it? So that you would see G-d in them.
Some stupid Bilalian, think his name is Ruskin. You know this man, Civil Rights leader? Yes, that's his name. What's his name again? Bayard Ruskin. That's his name. He's preaching support for the Jews. He's telling the world that the Jews are the age long fighters for freedom and human dignity. He's preaching harder for the Jews than he's preaching for Christ. The man has gone crazy. Hold up. He always had a problem, but now he's going stark raving mad, trying to satisfy the people who's paying his bills. Pitiful. He says that the Arabs have not been the force for liberation. The Jews have been the force for liberation.
Now that the Arabs have come into dollar power and are in a position to help to support the propagation of Al Islam in many places of the world, the enemies of the truth are coming out and trying to get all the help they can to blot out, to darken the bright image of Islam. They can't attack it directly. They don't attack the Holy Qur'an. They don't attack the life of Prophet Muhammad. They attack the Arab people, and they attack them in an ugly, deceitful, shameless way. Blow crimes and wrongdoing up way out of proportion, charge the Arab in having a part in the enslavement of our forefathers.
Charge 'em in a way to put a whole blame on the Arab. And you have been so programmed to not to think for yourself at all, that you buy their lies and you go around, they don't have to do nothing but say it and you just buy it right away. Somebody say, well come to Islam. I ain't going to Islam. They enslaved us. You knew the Christians enslaved you, you haven't left the church. Nobody have to tell you the Christians enslaved you. You know Christians enslaved you. You know Caucasian Christians left Europe and went to Africa, so-called Africa and brought your people in ships packed so close together, they was jammed like sardines in a can, had to defecate and urine on each other and on themselves. Many of them died in this horrible condition. Came to America and was turned into workhorses and work mules and whatnot. Were beat for not submitting their intelligence to the level of a work animal, and even lynched for not doing so. And then brought into Christianity by the same government, Christian government, by the same Christian people that enslaved them and destroyed them as human beings.
Then they were brought into Christianity. You know this, nobody has to tell you that. You know it, but you haven't left the Church and you see a Caucasian image of G-d on the walls of the churches. You don't say that image looked like the people that enslaved us. You don't say that image looked like the people that brought us on the ships and put us in bondage here in America. You may say, Well, there was some good Christians. You don't ask, are there some good Arabs. You blame all the Arabs. You condemn all the Arabs for what they said some Arabs did. How come you don't blame all the white Christians for what white Christians did? Because you are a damn programmed slave still.
I wouldn't throw out the Bible and throw out Christ, Christianity, for what some whites did against my forefathers and against me. I would look into it and see it's worth. And if it has worth and if it's good for my life, if it's better than anything else I can find, believe me, I'll accept the Bible and live by the Bible. I'll accept Christ as they present him and obey that Christ and follow that Christ as the son of G-d that leads me to G-d if I examine it and found that it was strong enough to support my life. But I have examined the Bible for myself. The Honorable Elijah Muhammad, he attacked the Bible. He condemned it as something that wasn't worthwhile as a guidance for people. But I didn't go just on what he told me. When I came into my manhood and learned to think and read and weigh things for myself, I made a self study of the Bible and I came to the conclusion that the Honorable Elijah Muhammad didn't know half of the poison and the lethal, lethal poison that exist and the trigger to blow people brains out that exist in that Bible.
I came to the conclusion that the Honorable Elijah Muhammad just had a small knowledge of the power of that Bible to blow up civilization and corrupt the whole life of the world. And I put it down as a guidance and I picked it up as a weapon to use to bring people back into truth.
I looked at Jesus, the image that they give us of G-d in Jesus. I looked at it and I found it more destructive, more detrimental to my life and my wellbeing than the Honorable Elijah Muhammad ever imagined. If he imagined it he didn't say it. That image never disturbed my father like it disturbs me. The Bible never disturbed my father like it disturbs me because G-d has blessed me to see more of the devil's pan in the Bible and in the image that they give us of G-d than he blessed my father with. I didn't follow him against Christianity. I didn't follow him against this divine Caucasian image of divinity, of the divine. I followed my good senses. I used the tools that he had given me. I used knowledge that I picked up from many places and from many people. I used all of it and G-d was guiding me. I don't care what you think. You don't have to like me. Hold up, don't clap. It takes time. You don't have to like me. You don't have to respect me. That means nothing to me. I'm fighting for G-d and I'm fighting for truth. I'm fighting for G-d. I'm fighting for truth, and believe me, I'm not doing it because I love you. I'm doing it because I love G-d and I love truth. That's why I'm doing it. Whether you love me or not, baby, you can forget about it.
Hold up. I know how you think with your crazy mind. Every time a man say G-d give him some guidance. Oh, he's trying to make himself a holy angel or a Prophet or something. If G-d can guide the earth into existence, into form, into orbit, then guide life into form, into existence and into form out of the earth. And then guide my own essence into existence and into form and guide my life rationally and morally. Do you think that same G-d is going to stop guiding? "Oh, you're saying you are a Prophet then, a Messenger of G-d." No, I am a human being and G-d still loves human beings. If a human being will give himself to G-d, G-d will still guide human beings. I don't have to be a Messenger. I don't have to be an angel or Prophet or a Messenger. A human being earns me a response from G-d. A human being, just a plain, ordinary human being. Not one who never told a lie, not one who never committed fornication, not one who never stole a penny or a piece of bread, a sinful human being. If he turns his heart completely to G-d, he is dignified and valuable enough for G-d to give him a response from Himself.
G-d himself will guide you when the world comes under darkness, who will guide us if it's not G-d. If the church leadership becomes sightless, blind, who's going to guide us? If the Jewish leadership becomes negligent and blind and corrupt, who's going to guide us? If the Muslim leadership become negligent, blind and corrupt, who's going to guide the Muslim world? G-d. Almighty G-d who guided the people from the beginning is always ready to guide anybody who's ready to give himself completely to His guidance. But G-d doesn't have to guide people anymore. G-d has sent His Prophets to guide and people have stood between us and His Prophets so that we can't reach His Prophets and get that guidance. Well, there is G-d's scripture. People have stood between us and G-d's scripture, so we can't get to that scripture.
They gave us Holy Qur'ans in English that were very distorted in weak form of the message that is given in the Arabic. Translation by Caucasians, translation by Indians who had to learn the language of the Qur'ans themselves. Most of the devoted Muslims who really appreciate the perfect and pure language of the Holy Qur'an refused to translate it into English. So what we have gotten was inferior translations And these inferior translations had not the power to bring us into clear truth. We had 'em. We were reading them. We didn't just start reading the Holy Qur'an in 1960. We've been reading The Holy Qur'an here in America since 1930.
You understand what I'm saying? And earlier than that some people brought the Qur'an to America. But I remember my father and my mother and the old members of this community who some of them are still here, telling me of those early days when Mr. Fard Muhammad himself, walked around with the Qur'an in his arms, gave the Qur'an to my father, and read and preached from that Qur'an. When Ahmadiyyas did the same thing. When Arabs that immigrated from Arabia, they were in the community, they were reading the Qur'an. People from the Tabliq community came into America and they read the Qur'an. They read it in English, and they also tried to preach it in Arabic and teach it in Arabic. Nothing has opened the mind of the American people until this leadership came into existence. I'm giving you the plain facts. Whether you're like it or not, it doesn't matter with me.
I'm here only to serve the will of Almighty G-d. Nothing brought these people into good mind and into good life until leadership was established here in this place in us. This is the fact. This is the fact. I've been among them. I've been among the Ahmadiyya, I've been in the Tabliq circle. I've been in other Muslim sittings. I've been with the Muslim Student Association of the United States and Canada who came late. They came when already there was a big good impression made at least for the name Islam, for the name Muhammad, for the name Allah. They came late. And I saw them helpless to bring people to Islam. They would bring Caucasians, and among them you'd find crazy minded, over spiritual, drunken in spiritualism or just irrational. Some they were converting they would be sensible and strong. But those who would go into their circles. They didn't have the courage. They didn't have the enthusiasm. They didn't have the zeal for preaching this religion that we have.
Nothing has come to America and made a strong community with power, enthusiasm, with zeal for delivering the message, for preaching it against all odds. Nothing has done it. But this clear truth, this clear method, this clear ministry that evolved out of symbolism, out of the darkness of symbolism, out of the darkness of mysticism, out of the darkness of oriental mysticism and symbolism, a clear mind has been born. And G-d has blessed that clear mind and that clear mind has led the other members to the clear truth of the Qur'an, to the clear message in Prophet Muhammad's life, the Qur'an and the Sunnah of Prophet Muhammad. You have come to it by the hundreds, by the thousands. And I hear weak talk, always trying to talk down what has happened here in America in this community. People from without and people from within.
If I was Satan himself and saw what has happened here in this community, I would say, Do you mean to tell me those people who just 50 years ago or just a hundred years ago were worked like dumb animals and were told that they were not even human on a level with other human beings, and wasn't given anything to lead them except what they inherited from their slave master's environment? Do you mean to tell me that there is now leadership among them, those people, that is a powerful challenge to the church leadership, to the synagogue leadership, to every leadership in the land. And that they are now leading themselves independently and offering leadership to others. That they have now come through black superiority and black supremacy after they were reduced to nothing by white supremacy? And now just in less than two years or so, they have stood up now as universal human beings fighting against black supremacy and fighting against white supremacy. If I was Satan himself, I would take my hat off, of my crown off to that black man.
Dear beloved people, when great people stand up giving themselves a hundred percent to Almighty G-d, don't expect a lot of spectators to say (Imam applauds) It didn't happen in the past, it's not going to happen today. You are going to have to stand up for your own man, for your own leadership and do this- (imam applauds again) Ain't nobody else going to do it. Look how long we have been fighting the evils that take us down and take the society down. How many leaders from the society has come in here and given us the credit that it's due? They haven't come in here and given us the credit that it is due.
They're afraid to show too much support for this, because they recognize this as a clean, wholesome, powerful movement for truth and G-d alone. And they want to keep something that they have that they're living off of. That's not G-d. That's not truth, so they can't give themselves completely to this. If it's not racism, it's materialism. If it's not that it's moral weakness. There is something that they still want to hold onto that they can't give up. So don't expect the world to join you. You have to pull the world behind you. You understand? The world is not going to join a pure and righteous thing. That pure and righteous thing has to pull the world up out of it's corruption and filth.
It take a lot of strength to follow what I'm asking you to follow. I'm not asking you to be a Muslim like the Muslim in Egypt. I'm not asking you to be a Muslim like the Muslim in Arabia. I'm not asking you to be a Muslim like the Muslim in Pakistan. I'm asking you to be a Muslim like Prophet Muhammad. That's what I'm asking you to do. And that's too much to ask most people, but I guarantee you, you have the capacity, you have the spiritual power, you have the spiritual hunger in you. You have the moral hunger in you. You have the hunger for a decent society in you that's strong enough as a power to move you and bring you behind this truth. It's too much to ask of others, but it's not too much to ask of you. I guarantee you that
If you are wise, you will thank Allah for blessing you with the leadership that you have. I'm not saying thank Allah for me, so I will live as a great person among you. No indeed. Thank Allah for me so that you will grow into a great person. There is no way for your mind to grow big if you ignore what has happened right here in America in my own life. Do you think G-d will bless you to grow to be a great Muslim and you ignore what has happened to my life? I'm a descendant of slave parents. I'm a descendant of Christian parents. I'm a descendant of a black Muslim who taught me black supremacy and materialism, and taught me to believe that G-d is flesh and blood and never was anything else. I'm a descendant of a leader like that, who told me that his Master Fard Muhammad and him was the ones that were going to lead this world, and that if I didn't give myself to Master Fard and him, I would be destroyed.
And just in a few years I have been given his community, and I have brought his community further along a path to real religion and to real truth than any Christian has to come, than any Jew has to come. And I'm not preaching blackness to you. I'm not telling you to place importance on black skin, but I'm preaching to you that you have a greater dignity now to identify in than black skin. You have the richness of a spirit for righteousness. You have the richness of a spirit for obedience to G-d. You have the richness of a spirit to establish truth and decent society.
You have spiritual excellence, you have spiritual richness. You have moral capacity for moral superiority. Not that you are morally superior, but you have a moral capacity for moral, moral superiority. You might say what I'm saying is Unislamic, I am not. Islam came to a people who were deepest in darkness, the pagan Arabs, the idolatrous Arabs. Islam came to a people who were deepest in ignorance of culture, high cultured civilization. But it was in those people who had a great void of spiritual worth and moral worth that G-d chose to raise up Muhammad among. And Prophet Muhammad, Peace and blessings Upon him. He began to pour G-d's water of rich spirituality, of rich morality, of rich intellectualism. He began to pour that into that deep void. And when that deep void was filled up, those people had more worth, had more wealth, had more water of moral strength, of spiritual strength, of rational purity than all the people on earth at that time. Why did they have more? Because their void was deeper. Their container was empty. They had more room for what G-d had to offer them. And the same thing has happened in America. G-d has chosen a people whose void is deeper than the void of any other people, whose container was more empty than the container of any other people, and He's poured His truth into me and you and we are now the biggest people on this earth.
I'm compelled to tell you this. It is not G-d's intention to raise us up here and give us a leadership from somewhere else. G-d's intention is to raise us up here so that the whole world can be inspired and raised up by this life. Don't you know there is no source of a religious revival. There is no source of human and social reform more promising than this one right here in America. If the African rise up and preach deliverance for the world, preach against white supremacy, preach against black supremacy, preach against enslavement, preach against moral degeneration, he could not be as effective as me because I'm born under the joint of history, America. I'm born under the mountain, the Mount Everest of spiritual, moral and intellectual darkness.
I'm born in the place where slavery have never deteriorated to the depth that it deteriorated here in this country. There have never been any slave reduced to the inferiority, to the depths that we was reduced in this country. I stand in the best spot. I stand in the best spot. I stand in the spot that promises more because it is the spot where the greatest challenge to truth has been and still is. If Almighty G-d can lift us up here under the feet of the giant, in the clutches of the giant, from the bottom of the society, from the bottom of the society, and then lift us up as a voice to command respect from the giant, all the other shorties should take their hats off and say All Praise be to Allah.
It was just a few years ago when the giant here on this continent either had everybody else obeying him or had their mouth shut. They didn't have the courage or the strength to speak out against him. Now, if Daniel can be brought to life in the lions den, then isn't that an encouragement? Isn't that hope for salvation to all the world? Beyond a shadow of a doubt, the hope for every enslaved community of the world, the hope for every demoralized community of the world is right here in this community, right here in this leadership that we are offering right here in America.
This is plain and clear A, B, C language. It doesn't mean that I'm going to become the Prophet of Islam. No, Muhammad is and always will be the Prophet of Islam and the last Prophet to the world. But that Prophet needs a witness. That Prophet needs somebody that respect what he did in this earth enough to do it the right way, enough to follow him as he led. He needs somebody that's bold enough to stand up in the world and attack white supremacists, attack black supremacists, attack yellow supremacists, attack green supremacists, attack any supremacy for G-d's sake. No, I don't want to hold you here forever, but I'll tell you this, if you are going to give your life to something else besides this once you leave here, you will be much better off staying here forever.
I am late for my plane, but my plane is not more important than this. It's going to take off and I'm not going to be there. Islam is salvation for the whole world. Islam is the savior, the champion for the whole world, the champion of freedom justice and equality, the champion of human dignity. Islam is that champion. It's a champion that can't be defeated, but who has the courage to come out and introduce that champion? Most of the people have the courage to introduce prayers, to introduce ritualism, to introduce personalities, to introduce submission to G-d, but they don't have the courage to introduce that champion in his full glory.
Yes, Islam teaches this but. No but. I don't tell you Islam teaches this but. Islam teaches this and we must live this. The power is in the message of Islam as that message was completed and perfected by G-d in the mission of Prophet Muhammad of Arabia, Peace and blessings be Upon him. The keys sound so simple when you get 'em that you underestimate their power to unlock your life and free you to live the life that Almighty G-d intended for you. The key is one G-d, having no image, having no identity in creation. Creator is not creation. Creator is the G-d, the Master, the Creator, the former of creation. Creation is inferior to creator. Creator is the master. Creation is a servant.
The stars, the heavenly body, the life on earth, your own physical body, all of these things obey laws that was put in the physical creation by Almighty G-d. When man learns all that he can of this physical world without G-d's guidance, he comes to the conclusion that the physical world in its totality is G-d's. And that the forces of the world is G-d's. He believes that the human being intelligent is the highest manifestation of G-d. So he wants to put G-d in a human being's image. But if he's blessed to get his knowledge lifted up to a high plane and then submit his high crown down on the ground to his creator and say, I know I was made wise, I know now I don't have to pray to you for wheat and eggs. I know how to grow it.
I know how to raise it myself. I know now, G-d, I don't have to pray to you for wealth. I know how to make it for myself. I don't have to pray to you G-d now for a defense against my enemies, my intelligence have enabled me to create and invent weapons that frighten the whole world. I don't have the pray to you G-d for knowledge to keep people obedient to government, to my government. I have come into a knowledge of how to manipulate the minds of people, how to clock their behavior and make it tick on time to my cadence. But still G-d, I recognize that I need help.
So with all of my rational knowledge, with all of my rational power, the superiority, I'm going to put my crown on the floor in Sajdah, in prostration to you. That man, G-d guides him. G-d gives him greater wealth. G-d shows him just how to overcome the problem of the rich and boastful and learned society. It was these humble men who were rational but not the highest in knowledge who submitted themselves to G-d and G-d blessed them with His guidance and then they came back to the learned society and challenged the learned society and eventually brought the learned society back into the fold of worshipers of G-d.
We have the same problem today. What will bring us into the fold again? What will save the world? One G-d, having no identity in creation. G-d's identity it's not human, it's not wind, it's not air, it's not fire. It's not the whole universe. His identity is only known as much as He choose to make it known to the persons that He choose to reveal it to. And the Holy Qur'an says that we cannot capture G-d with our sight. We can only get some knowledge of the being, and the being and description of G-d. If we had a focus so big that we could capture the whole G-d with it, we would be bigger than G-d. And look brother, I'm not talking to the sisters. There's no sister that have ever become so crazy that she thought a man was G-d. Hold up. Unless she was really crazy. But no sister in her normal mind have ever thought that a man was G-d. It's only crazy men that force the belief on them. We have to do it. We have to force it on. It doesn't come natural to us. We force it on our minds that G-d is a man. The sisters know better. They know what a man is. You can't make a sister believe a man is G-d. She'll say yes, All praises due to you G-d. But inside she's saying, G-d help this young boy. She knows better.
So we have a natural, a natural evolution. There's a natural evolution of spiritual knowledge in the earth. It has conformed to a natural evolution. First man looks at the environment. He sees the forces of the environment and these crush him. They bring him under fear and they make him fear that maybe G-d is speaking in this image. So he gives himself to the worship of thunder, to the worship of lightning, to the worship of fire, to the worship of a mountain, to the worship of rain, to the worship of those things that he see as powerful forces in his environment. But as his knowledge increases, he begin to push those things away as G-d's to worship. The last thing for him to overcome is himself. After he gets all the knowledge, then he thinks that maybe I'm G-d.
Finally, he evolved above that and realized, no, not even I am G-d. I am the same old primitive man that used to worship the thunder, used to worship the lightning, used to worship the mountain, used to worship the fire. I have to go back and become a worshiper. I was born a worshiper. Now I have to go back and become a worshiper again. But this time, not seeing G-d in the image of creation but seeing G-d in the image of Creator who really has no image, cannot be conceived in an image. This is deliverance. This is salvation. This frees your life. It makes it possible for you to relate in a natural and right way to your family members, to the members of your society, to your government, to the world and to the whole universe. Thank you.
Without this, we are doomed. Until you come to the season, you can wear the clothes of the last season, but once you come to the new season, you have to dress in the dress of the new season. If you tried to wear those old winter coats, winter boots and hats in July that you wore in January, you are going to be a miserable cuss. Almighty G-d has moved humanity, have moved civilization, have moved humanity and the human spirit, the human spirit and the human society. He has moved it up the ladder of evolution. From all of his primitive ignorance, from all of his primitive worship, He have now moved it into the season of judgment, of judgment. A season that deprives you of any benefit from worshiping anything but G-d in His true, true identity. If you don't worship Him and His true identity in this day, whatever you worship is going to work against you. It's going to retard your moral development. It's going to retard your rational development. You are going to become a distraught thing on this earth. I'm telling you a fact of this present time, a fact of this present time. You cannot grow morally, spiritually. You cannot grow even rationally today unless you accept the guidance of G-d as we are giving it to you.
Don't you see the leadership of the world? Don't you see how helpless it is? Can it redeem the schools? Can it redeem the society? Can it redeem the Church? If it has not the power to redeem it's education, to redeem it's schools, has not the power to redeem the Church, has not the power to redeem government. Everything is at a loss. Everything is confused. Everything. The leadership from everywhere is saying, we don't know the answers. We don't have the answers. We can't offer you any clear path to victory. All of us are experimenting. All of us are researching, all of us are thinking and planning. We are trying to discover a way out of the confusion and the miserable life that we have fallen into. That's what they're saying. And day by day, the good senses of the western world are falling limper and limper, withering like a tree that has no water day by day.
Look how senseless the homes are becoming. Look how senseless the government leadership is becoming. Only a few people are showing some sign of life. It's like a community that has suddenly been killed by a great blow. And you go and look for life in the community and most of the things you pass by are motionless. Every now and then you find a movement from a thumb, a slight movement in a toe. But there's no being or no section, or sector, a part of the government, a part of the society, standing up wholly with whole life. Everything has been prostrated. Everything has fallen down to the ground as dead. And what you see is just a slight motion from something that's life. When Mr. Renalt Robinson spoke here today, we saw a shaking, a trembling in one member of the body. That's a sign that there's little life left in the body. But was it whole life? No. The only thing he said was that you have to make government respond to your needs. Government is helpless to respond to my needs. Government is under the same death influences that the society is under.
If you would believe that there is only one G-d, that your prayers go straight to that G-d. You don't have to pray to Christ. You don't have to pray to the saints. You don't have to pray to Muhammad. You don't have to pray to anybody, you pray to Allah. Prophet Muhammad never taught us to pray to anyone except Allah. The Qur'an tells us that Allah is as close to each one of us as our own life vein. The life vein that feeds life to my brain, the Holy Qur'an tells me that Allah is as close to me as that.
So what right have I to yell out and scream? G-d help me, come down from your kingdom. Arise from your heaven. I can speak quietly. I can think quietly and the G-d that is closer to me than my own life vein, hears me louder than I can hear myself. The individual is a powerful dignified creature. He is the greatest thing in creation, but if he turns his eye from the direction of G-d, he begins falling down and he can fall to the lowest of the low according to the words of the Most high G-d in the Qur'an. Allah says He has made us in the best of molds, but then we are reduced to the lowest of the low by turning our eyes from the direction of G-d.
Dear beloved people know that there's a power in you to save yourself. All you have to do is have faith in that power. What is that power? Worship of G-d. In your nature is the desire to worship Almighty G-d. If you'll let that power live and grow in you and worship G-d properly, give yourself a hundred percent to the one G-d who created the skies and earth and all things, you'll begin to come into more and more awareness of your own strength as a human being following and obeying G-d to overcome all the opposition, to meet all the obstacles in life before you and to make life for yourself a heaven and for your family and for the society. You can do it. Certainly G-d is G-d, but He has given us a position as His custodian to establish right leadership, right order, right society on this earth. He has given that to our charge. That's our responsibility. G-d didn't say, I'm going to give you an angel to do this for you. He said, no, you have to do it for yourself. G-d didn't say, I'm going to do it for you. He said, I gave the job to you. You have to do it for yourself.
G-d is not going to give us a good life. G-d is going to give us good guidance for a good life. We have to follow that guidance and execute that blueprint in our life and build that good life for ourselves. G-d is not going to put bread in your mouth. He put a titty in your mouth when you were born, and He made your mother take that titty out of your mouth to let you know you have to use your hand. You have to do something for yourself. G-d gives us the life, He gives us the intelligence, He gives us the spiritual and moral nature. Then He gives us revelation to guide us as a blueprint for that life. If we don't work, we will have no building. G-d is not going to build the building. He gave us the blueprint. We have to build the building.
How many of you're ready to be real Muslims? How many of you are ready to stop lying to yourself, to stop lying to your family and to your relatives? Stop lying to your leaders and start being true Muslims. All Praises due to Allah. Allahu Akbar. Live the life of Islam. Don't be hypocrites. If I invite you to Islam and you come to Islam and you accept that Allah is G-d. Say, Allah is G-d. Don't say creation is G-d. Don't say human intelligence is G-d. Don't say human conscious is G-d. Your conscience is a baby. It was born and raised up. Your intelligence is a baby. It was born and raised up. Your spirit is a baby. It was born and raised up. Everything about you was born and raised up. G-d created you. G-d re birthed you. G-d created, made possible your reproduction. G-d has made possible your raising up from nothing to something, from a baby to a man, from a baby, to a woman.
You have nothing to boast of unless it is faith and obedience to G-d. So know this and don't say with your mouth Allah is G-d. Don't say with your mouth the Chief Minister say, man is not G-d and saying with your mind, but mind is G-d. Mind is not G-d. Mind is darkened and corrupted and killed. G-d cannot be darkened. G-d cannot be corrupted. G-d cannot be killed. G-d does not need a rebirth. G-d does not need a resurrection. Human life, spiritually, morally and intellectually dies occasionally in history and needs a rebirth, a resurrection. Allah never needs a rebirth. Allah never needs a resurrection because He was never born. He has always existed.
Don't let these deceivers trick you. They take my teachings. And when I say my teachings, I don't mean that I have a religion. I mean my commentary, my explanation, my discourse on the teaching of Islam and the Bible, et cetera. They take this and they give it to you piecemeal, give it to you in parts. They take this part and put it with that part. They take it out of its original context and give it to you in the context that they want it in to produce the effect in you that they want to produce. Where does this happen? Right here in this, so-called Mosque, right here in this so-called Masjid. Where else does it happen? It happens on the radio. They take tapes of my talks, and they stop the tape on a point to make an effect and leave that effect on your mind.
Don't judge what I say by what you hear from others. Don't even judge what I say by what you hear in the paper that somebody else put in that paper from me. Don't judge it by what you hear on the radio. They plan it and arrange it and stop it where they want to stop it to produce the effect they want to produce. So far, G-d has not given me any help but His Qur'an, Prophet Muhammad and the knowledge of His Prophets and the knowledge of His scriptures. That's the only help I've gotten. An angel that you don't understand. I have this as help. I have good Muslims that come from across the water. They can't stay here and help me. In fact, most of them when they come here, they're helpless. When they come here, they come right under the throne of faith and if they are not careful, Satan will turn their emotional power, their spiritual power into a force to keep support under what he's trying to keep into existence. Not even the brothers from across the water have strength enough to come here and protect me. I'm in hell right in the belly of the devil fighting to break out of his structure and deliver you free of him and I have no help except G-d, His revelation and His Prophet.
I want you to know that. Don't think that these people are with me a hundred percent. Most of them are committed to something else besides this. The best of them might be with me 69%, but there is what, 31% that they have somewhere else. It's either with their moral weaknesses or with their spiritual ignorance or with their dependency on somebody that's giving them a free meal ticket, guaranteeing them employment, offering them power. You can't trust them. I told you, and I tell you again, I have sinners around me. The best of them are sinners. Why don't you get them away from around you then Chief? They're the best that I got until better is manifest, until better come to me I have to work with what I got.
I have Shakir, Brother Shakir, who's very good for what I use him for. He makes appointments for me. Very good. He arranged meetings for me. Very good. He carries messages. Very good. He gets me on an airline. Very good. He has the ability to get me booked, get me through the transportation. Very good. He has the ability to contact government offices and other departments, community departments, very effective. He has a great knowledge of what I teach. Before I met him, he was a student of comparative religion, theology, et cetera, but this brother has not yet woke up to my real value.
He still restrains himself. He comes so far and he backs up. So I'm helpless except for Almighty G-d. The best people around me are crippled. If it is not an arm that's missing, it's a leg missing. If it is not that, an eye is missing. But All Praise is due to Allah, this is a blessing. Give me people that just by nature, slaves. To money, women, foolishness, government power. Give me those people. Some atheists, some materialists, some got their own spiritual brand of religion. Give me those people as helpers so that they will see that here is a man that G-d has made it possible to come into truth that none of you can twist. None of you can convert away from his faith.
This is good. These people around me, they represent the powerful strength of this society. They represent their learned minds and religions. They're learned minds and government. They're learned minds and finances. Then they come around me and they try to entice me. They try to influence me. They try to direct me, and they see they have nothing strong enough to do that with. This is a blessing. They go back and they tell their bosses, "No, he hasn't changed yet. No, he hasn't changed yet. No, he hasn't changed yet." What is this doing? This is weakening their policy. And in time their bosses will say, "Maybe he is backed by G-d. So I don't hate this situation. I welcome this situation, but I hope you won't be fooled or distanced from me. And I'm not talking about all of you. Better than a third of these here are employed by those weak ones that are around me.
They don't work for me. They work for the weak ones around me. And they think that they won't have a check unless they obey those weak ones around me. They think they can't survive in Chicago unless they obey those weak ones around me. Well, good, that's good for you. You got what you deserve. You are weak and you got somebody like you to be your master. That's good. That's a beautiful and perfect relationship for you. But I pray you good ones don't come under their influence. People around me committing adultery, people around me committing fornication, people around me drinking whiskey, people around me lying and conniving and scheming and trying to undermine strength for G-d, strength for G-d. He's trying to undermine it. People around me constantly working to keep this thing in check so that it'll never grow as big, so big that they can't handle it. They want to keep it small enough for them to always be able to handle it. Lemme tell you something, you damn crazy fool. It is already too big for you to handle. You are fighting. You are working and fighting against something that is just hopeless. You're fighting and working for something that is hopeless. Too late. This is our season. You are going under. We are coming up. Nothing will change that in the heavens or in the earth.
Some even bold enough to tell me, prove your charges against me. If I would do that, you wouldn't be able to serve me anymore. A believer respects leadership. A believer will not connive and scheme and work against leadership. Wherever I see anybody doing this, this is a clear enough sign for any fool that that's not a believer, that's a plant and the wrong kind of plant. That's the tare, it want to choke out the wheat. Now I have announcement to make to you today and I hope that you'll accept this announcement and act as I ask you to act. That is accept it as I ask you to accept it. Minister Farrakhan is here on the rostrum today. Nobody has asked him to come out. Nobody has forced him to come out. He's here because he wants to be here. He told me that he supports me, that he wants to work for me, that he has been trying to, that he has some differences, but those differences don't separate him from me and they don't separate him from this community.
As long as he accepts that there is one G-d and he accepts it in the sense that I preach it, and as long as he accepts that Muhammad of Arabia is the last and universal Prophet who received the Qur'an, the last and complete message for the whole world. As long as he accept the fundamental teachings of Islam, the fundamental teachings and practices and beliefs in Islam, as long as he accept to turn his face in worship, toward the Qibla, the first house built by Abraham and his son Ishmael in Mecca. I don't ask him to worship Arabs. I don't ask him to worship Mecca. I ask him to conform to the guidance of G-d, to the order of G-d and that is that we recognize the first place where He established this pure faith and that was where the Ka'aba is in Mecca. G-d established it there as He wanted to keep it in the earth and He grew it from that point so that it spread and grew all around the world.
G-d want us to turn and focus our eyes on that Qibla, on the Ka'aba and on the holy precincts there called Masjid Al Haram, the sacred precincts there around that Ka'aba. If he can do that, as I ask you to do it and who knows whether he has come around more than you have come around. I'm not talking to you individually, I'm talking to all of you. I don't know whether he has come around more than you or whether you have come around more than he. He expresses himself. You don't express yourself. Maybe if you would express yourself, it'd be you that we'll be saying that's making trouble by bringing confusion into the minds of the people.
Certainly I know what he's saying. He's saying that the Honorable Elijah Muhammad has to be respected, that his contributions has to be respected, that we have to give him a high place in our history. I'm sorry that he can't understand I've done that. He was very close to the Honorable Elijah Muhammad. He has very deep sentimental feelings about the Honorable Elijah Muhammad. I regret that he doesn't have the deep insight and understanding that Allah has blessed me with. If he did, he wouldn't ask me to do anymore for the Honorable Elijah Muhammad than I've done, but this is something that he has to settle within himself. This is a problem that he has to live with and some of you live with worse problems.
I'm not asking any man or anybody among us to put down the Honorable Elijah Muhammad. I'm telling you that he's not a Prophet, never was. I'm telling you that he was not divinely sent as Messengers are sent. Messengers are sent with pure truth. Messengers don't come with lies and truth. Messengers don't come with tricks and truth. Messengers come with only truth. You understand what I'm saying? I think they have turned me back on now for the whole hookup. When I was saying something that they didn't want to hear I doubt if all the Masjids I heard what I said just before. I think they had some failures somewhere out there. They know how to make failures in certain places you understand. What I'm saying? The thing that they don't want out, they cause a failure somewhere in the hookup.
I wish you didn't have the burden of fear on you. I feel sorry for you. I look out there among you and I can see you just fearful. "They going to kill him." Not unless Allah let them kill me. "I don't think the Chief knows what he's up against." Am I up against the sun? Is the sun attacking me? Is the moon attacking me? Is the earth attacking me? If all of those things were attacking me, they still couldn't make me stop preaching. You don't understand. Once you know G-d, nothing of creation can interfere in your life. And I know G-d. I gave myself to G-d. I trusted Him before I knew Him like I know Him now. And once I trusted Him completely, He showed me that nothing material, animate or inanimate has any power of it's own, that there is constantly over it at all times the power of Almighty G-d. You can't do anything to me. Your bosses can't do anything to me. The whole wall can't do anything to me unless Allah allows it. Allah has given me so many signs because He knew what I was going come up against. And if He didn't give me strong signs to protect me, to comfort me when I'm being attacked by strong powers, He knew that I would be upset, I would be fearful. I'd be trembling for my life. So He gave me strong signs to let me know you have nothing to fear but Me.
I have been talking to you for some time here for two years, right? And the first time I addressed you, I told you to stop giving your forces of your life to emotionalism. Don't react to emotions all the time. Do some thinking. I've been told that certain so-called brothers, followers, Muslims, maybe some of them are a hundred percent sincere but just misguided. I've been told that some of them talking about stopping Minister Farrakhan, he's making trouble. He's not with the Chief. Did the Chief tell you to stop him? Even if I did, you should still think before you act.
I told you that this truth that we are delivering, it will stand up without sticks and guns to protect it. It don't need any brute force, any mob, gun men to go out and stop people if they are a challenge to this. You like to have the atmosphere like that so you can go out and stop somebody that's doing good in the name of a good thing. I told the staff members, the members of our staff here that if Minister Farrakhan wants to go out and teach on his own, say he's welcome to do so. I told him that as long as he don't teach something against what we are teaching, he has no reason to fear or anticipate any attack from me. But I said if he teach something against this, then I'm going to rise up and meet his attacks and defend this against what he say and I guarantee you that there is not a man, woman, child, force in this creation, that is able to stand up and preach against what I'm telling you and be successful.
I've talked to Minister Farrakhan personally. We've had private conversations. I don't see in him any desire to stop what we are doing. I don't see in him nothing but a desire to speak from his own mind and conscience in a way that is innocent and honest. Now if he's got other intentions, he'll have to show that to me. I don't want you telling me that exists. I don't see it. He'll have to show it to me. And if he shows it to me, I'll tell him. Say look brother, it'll be best that we separate because you are not working for me. You are working against me. I'll tell him that, but until I tell him that, let us all accept him. Let us all accept him as our brother. Let us all accept him as a Minister, as an Imam, as a teacher of Islam. I accept Minister Farrakhan. I accept him that he haven't yet accepted come into the Imam. But if he wants to be an Imam, I accept him. If he wants to be an Imam, I accept him to come in and be an Imam.
And let us all see who are the best followers. Let's not close the door to people who say I follow and keep them out, not giving them the chance to prove that they follow. Let's let everybody come in that want to follow and let us judge everybody by what we see them do, not by what we hear they're doing. Let us judge everybody by what we see them doing. And I'm not asking for any army to pick up weapons or guns or to use their fists or anything else to defend what I'm saying. I don't need you nor your crazy brute force. If you want to use your muscles, go join the police department. You want to shoot somebody, join the law enforcement. I don't need nobody to shoot people away from me.
Well, they'll shoot you Chief. You are closer to me than they are. I better worry about you shooting me first. We have to have unity. We have to have peace. You know the way of the old world, their work is to divide and conquer. When you see forces constantly trying to turn you against personalities in the group, that's the forces of the old enemy trying to keep you weak and beneath them. Don't obey those forces. I preach respect for the government. I preach that you should live a life of an American and that you should accept to identify with this American country and with this government. But I don't teach you that you ought to just give your life completely over to the government and over to this society. No, your life is an Islamic life. You have to live your life for yourself. The government is not an Islamic government. They're not going to teach you how to be Muslim. They're not Muslim.
The society is not a Muslim society. It's not going to teach you how to be Muslim. It's not Muslim. "Oh, so-and-so is doing such and such. Now he's drinking, now he's doing this. We are losing everything. The society is going down." You are going down. We are going up. And Minister Farrakhan, he told me that he think he can help those people who used to live a disciplined life following the Honorable Elijah Muhammad but now don't have faith in what I'm doing so they have given up on their lives. He says he thinks he can help them.
If he thinks he can help them and he wants to help them, why don't we let him help them? I say let him help them. "Oh, maybe he'll get a good number together and become a threat to you." Have you become a threat to me? No but we got control now. I know what control you got and nobody but Allah can take that control away from you because the devil has given it to you. And there's nobody that's strong enough to defeat Satan but Allah. So don't worry about Minister Farrakhan taking control from you. He can't take control from you.
You got that control from somebody that's big, so big there's nobody over them but Allah. Don't worry about it. Other people threatening your control. Have a few other quick announcements. I want to acknowledge the hard work before all of you of our Sister Earline Muhammad. This is a young sister recently converted to Islam. She's a student in a college here, in the City College here in Chicago. This sister sold 300 to 400 Bilalian News in the worst days of our winter. This sister got pneumonia selling the papers, but thanks to Allah, she's over the pneumonia now and she's still working just as hard. The other day I was here and I saw her with Bilalian News standing on outside when I came up holding it up. See how Allah show you, he show you weak men. You don't have the strength anymore but don't think I don't have the strength to make people do with the power of truth what you made them do with a threat of a mob, a FOI mob standing over them. This sister did that with nobody threatening her. No compulsion. Nobody told her you have to take 40 papers, 300 papers. Nobody told her, give me $40 for this 300 papers in advance. On her own she took 300 to 400 papers and sold them willingly without any compulsion.
Allah showed us this good sister so we will know that He has the power. Don't think He can't marshal together a Bilalian news force to sell as many papers as you did under the power of brute force. But He is the all wise and He will do it as he wants to do it. May Allah forever bless you sister Earline Muhammad. She's an outstanding sister. She's on the Honor Roll in her school. She makes all top marks. I pray one day she be a great leader for us here in Chicago. Maybe she'll become a great leader in the field of education. She'll be a help to the school or something. We don't know. Maybe she'll become a great defender of the faith. We don't know, but I know something great is in store for this sister because she's earning it. Now I just mentioned her name because this sister is so unique among us, but there are many others too who are very, very dedicated and do hard work and sacrifice much.
Also, I want to ask you today while we are on national hookups to work hard for the next two weeks and sacrifice from your income. Don't go rob anybody. Don't risk your baby's life. Don't risk having yourself put out doors. Don't shame yourself, don't lower your dignity, but if you can sacrifice from your earnings, from your income and help us for the next two weeks on the national debt, I think we can improve our financial position. There's great relief in store for us in the future and Inshallah within less than a year, maybe six months will we will be talking about profits instead of debts and burden. But right now we are talking about debts and burden. We do have something that is strong and it's showing a lot of promise and that's the Imports department. And since it has been able to survive and remain strong and continue to grow, I ask that the leader of that department Brother Nadir Ali, the business head of that department, become the business head for the whole community
And I've asked the Corporate attorney here who works for an independent firm downtown, Attorney Naif Muhammad Mahmud, to join Brother Nadir Ali and give him the proper legal advice and proper cooperate business advice for legal negotiations and legal actions so that he will have the support from strong attorneys. He's a Corporate attorney who worked for the strong firm. He's a great asset. I've also asked that attorney Mustafah to also join and give his support to brother Nadir Ali, who will be the head of all the businesses in Chicago and over those businesses that are still national businesses under our control. And I've asked that brother Mustafah also be elected to the position of executive officer for the board of the Imam, executive business officer for the board of Imam. And I think we should give others a chance. We have seen what the ones we have done. They have made a lot of progress in many areas. But they have balked and have many problems and seen to be bogged down in other areas. So let's see can a fresh crew come in and take over and continue the progress so that we won't be bogged down in any area.
I am also asking that believers who had savings with us get the benefit of those savings. Right now we are not in a position to give you cash, but we do have businesses that we are spinning off. If you want a share equal to your savings in those businesses, you are welcome to get that share. I understand that there are some who have conspired with people among us to claim shares that they don't have. Even got false documents that show that they have savings. So we are going to really go through 'em with a fine tooth comb and trace 'em and search 'em out all around the world if we have to make sure you have legitimate claims on these savings. And I'm asking every member of the Imam board here and every Imam in the region throughout the country to join us in protecting us from these crooks that want to rob the community of his strength and it's wealth. So for the next two weeks, please give what you can. I'm asking also that a bank account be set up for national savings and that the Imams across the country donate, send their contributions directly to these bank accounts.
Money shouldn't be coming like this. It’s too big a temptation. If we can stop the temptation, let's do it. And I think we can stop it if we send big sums of money into bank accounts that I can check off, that the staff can check off. That all members have equal access to. But if some have better access to something than others, we stand in a terrible position to be fooled and tricked and robbed. I'm asking that that account be set up to immediately so that checks from across the country be sent to that account. It'll be a national account and then we'll withdraw from that account to pay our national debts and whatnot.
I hate to hold you like this, but this is an important day. This is an important day. Today you saw Officer Renault Robinson come out and address us. This is the beginning of a program that I've initiated. I've asked that the staff invite healthy, decent persons from all law enforcement departments to come and address our community on problems. The reason why we are helpless is because we don't have no direct contacts with any power or authority. All of our contacts come through other people, come indirectly. We have to go through a long line of people to reach the people that are really influencing our lives and controlling our lives. We are not going to get respect and recognition and cooperation from law enforcement and government until we start having a direct communication and association with law enforcement and government. I know how suspicious and crazy you are.
I know how dumb you've been made. I know how you suspect everything if it's not going in the direction that you think it should go in, I don't have time to preach to you and establish the strength and the rightness of what I'm doing. I'm just telling you this is what I'm doing. I don't have but a few minutes to tell you it's the right thing to do, that it will protect us and it will give us more strength in Chicago and in our communities and in our homes. I'm going to invite people from the FBI department. They have a service department, a community service department. I'm going to invite them to come down here and address us and tell us what problems they have with us. That's the only way we are going to solve 'em. We are going to have to solve 'em in the open. There's no secrecy in Islam. Muslims do everything in the open. I'm going to invite the Fire department to come down here and address us and tell the community what kind of problems is happening. I'm going to invite the CIA to come down here. If you want something from us, come and tell all of us. We don't want no secrecy. Let it all come out in the open.
If any lawful legitimate government agency, intelligence agency or other got any business in our community, got any problems here, needs cooperation from us. I'm asking them to send their representatives down here to us to address our committee, to address the committee and to address the whole community. We'll call a community gathering just like we have today and I want them to address our community and our committee and tell us what problems they have in our community. And we want to tell them what problems we are facing in our community that they can help us with. We don't want a lot of stool pigeons, a lot of Uncle Toms working as in between men for us undercover just to preserve bean soup, party money, a steak once a week. These cheap in between men are keeping us down in slavery and corruption. The only way we are going to get rid of them we have to deal directly with the forces of this world. I don't have to speak to nobody in between man. I have earned respect from the leaders of government, from the leaders of intelligence departments. I've earned respect from Kings and Queens of the world. I've earned it. If they want any business, if they got any business with us, come on down here and talk it in the open.
We are not the enemies of the CIA. We are the enemies of corruption. We are not the enemies of the FBI. We are the enemies of corruption. We are not the enemies of the Police department, we are the enemies of corruption. We are not the enemies of the government. We are the enemies of corruption. So I'm inviting them. They say they want to do more. They want cooperation from the citizens. I welcome them. I invite them to come down here, talk to us. Let's work together. I want a strong America. I want a strong government for America. I want a strong intelligence department for America. You think I don't? You crazy If you think I don't.
You think I want a weak government for America? Maybe another government will come in that might not be as good to me as America is. I don't want no weak government for America. I want a strong government for America. I want a strong department, Police department for Chicago. I want strong Intelligence department, but I don't want none working undercover, restraining and retarding the work that I'm doing. And the reason why they have so much control on us is because these in-between lackeys, Uncle Toms, these black slaves are giving them false reports on us and making them think we are a danger, an explosive threat here when we are not. We have a few problems, but we don't need no police force to handle those problems.
I guarantee you there is no army in here that we can't handle. When the police come, we will deliver them over to the police. The police won't have to free us. We'll deliver them over to the police. These in-between people, they want the government department to think that they have to constantly protect me from wicked people in this society, dangerous elements in the society, un-American elements in the society that want to take the power from me. And my only security is their protection. That's a lie. Ain't nobody threatening me but some silly, crazy minded person that never did have their mental faculties working for them. And most of 'em don't do nothing but talk crazy. They ain't going to do nothing. Do you think I just started talking like I talk? I talked like this before I came in this position. I got on the radio. I got on the TV. I challenged the whole Nation of Islam on TV in the sixties in the late sixties. I challenged the whole Nation of Islam on TV. I talked about it on radio and I walked by myself. I lived in my home by myself. I had not one single guard, not one single security officer. I went on the job, I worked for other people. Sometimes I was working as a self-employed person cleaning rugs and furniture. I was out in the streets. Nobody killed me. I heard threats that they were going to kill me. Nobody killed me. I had friends then. I got friends now.
I got Allah and I got the believng people who understand what we are doing and are willing to give their lives for it right now. I know that if I would ask you to throw anybody out of here, there'd be a great number of you who would sit down, but there would be enough of you who would stand up to throw 'em out and defeat all of those who sit down on the instructions. And don't think I don't know who I got here. I know who's here. I know most of you are employed by others. But we don't need the majority. A third of us can whip two thirds of the other. You want to see a miracle? Test your strength. I'm talking to those who think they have the power. I'm telling you, there's some sitting right before me now who's sitting there thinking, saying, "Nigga, we just need you right now, but we could do you in." I'm talking to them. You need me right now because Allah has made you to need me right now. When you stop feeling you need me, Allah is going to make something else happen to you. You don't know it and you might go out of this world never knowing it, but you'll never stop what we are doing.
Now lastly, I want to ask you to keep up the attack on this physical Caucasian image that they give us in the community for us to reverence as the son of G-d. We are not attacking Jesus. Jesus was a righteous Prophet, a servant of Almighty G-d. We are not attacking Jesus. We are attacking the image that they use to breathe inferiority into our community and superiority into their people. If you fail me, you'll just lose yourself. If you stand up and act, you'll be successful. You might even find so-called Orthodox Muslims tell you Muslims are not supposed to attack the things that other people reverence because the Holy Qur'an say don't attackr the G-d's that they reverence because they may attack yours.
Prophet Muhammad didn't attack the image of Jesus on the cross, but now it's time to attack it. Why? Because they don't reverence that image anymore. That image used to be revered. There are not a lot of people who really believe sincerely that that image is G-d anymore. America and the Western world disrespect Jesus. They don't have any more respect for Jesus. They don't have any more respect for G-d in religion. So the same rules don't apply anymore. This world have lost sincere reverence for Jesus. They have lost that kind of belief that Jesus in the flesh is G-d. Most of the learned people of the Western society now don't believe that Jesus in the flesh is G-d. They believe that Jesus is just a spiritual manifestation of G-d, that in his spiritual life he was the manifestation of the power of G-d, but his physical body was not G-d. The spiritual being, the spiritual force moving in his life was G-d. That's what they believe. So really in their own teaching, they don't identify the physical image with Almighty G-d or even with Jesus the true spirit. So if we attack it, we are not attacking a G-d that people reverence. We are attacking an image that people use to get other people to bow down and be cowered and enslaved and to think themselves inferior. That's what we are attacking.
Fear not. Prophet Muhammad, what did he do? He preached Islam. He preached against the idol G-d of the Ka'aba. He told them that G-d is not these things that you fashion with your hand. He didn't go there and break 'em up and tear 'em down. He preached for many years, preached for over 10 years. After he had saturated the peninsula, after he had saturated Arabia, Mecca and Medina and the neighboring precinct with that knowledge and he got strong enough to go to Mecca, what did he do? He took and he broke them up. Every image that they had made of G-d, he broke them up and destroyed them, didn't he?
The same message, the message that he received saying don't attack their deities that they worship for fear that they might attack your G-d. This means don't attack them in a disrespectful, shameful way. Don't say lies, don't make lies. Don't say vulgar or filthy things about their deities. Attack their deities in an intelligent way. Argue with them in the way that is intelligent, the way that is best. But it doesn't then say don't argue with them. You know, you got Muslims in Orthodox Islam today who feel that you ought to say, that we supposed to say to the Christians, To you your religion, to me mine. This is not to the Christians. This is not what we supposed to say to the Christians, To you your religion, to me mine. This is what we are supposed to say to a kafir. A kafir is one who recognized religion but then reject it.
A kafir is one who hides his intention. He works against religion and pretend to be innocent. That's a kafir. He's one who hides himself. Christians are not called kafir in the Qur'an. The Holy Qur'an say, you'll find the Christians are close, are nearest to you in their piety. They are pious people. tTat was back there in those days. They have lost a lot of that piety since those times. But in those days they had a lot of piety. They were sincere in their devotion. And still today you'll find pious Christians like that who are sincere in their devotions, though the majority have turned from that.
So we are not to take this to mean the Christians. It says, Say to the people of the book, let us come together. Let us agree that we worship none but one G-d and associate nothing with Him." This is what the Holy Qur'an says. So we have to say to the Christians, they're the people of the book. We have to say to the Jews, let us come to an agreement that we worship none but Allah the one and only G-d and associate nothing with Him. And let us not wait for them to come and say, I think I want to become a Muslim. Let us go to them and call them to the faith. Call them to the path of G-d in a way that is best and just. This is the teaching of the Holy Qur'an. I'm on the right path. I am teaching you the right thing. I'm calling you to take the right position. If you want to listen to others, let your weakness lead you on down that road. We will be successful. Asalaam Alaikum.


