05/23/1976
IWDM Study Library
A New Heaven & A New Earth
Los Angeles CA

By Imam W. Deen Mohammed
In the name of Allah, the Beneficent, the Merciful. All praise is due to Allah. Lord sustainer of all the worlds, Beneficent, the Merciful. The Master of the day of requital. You alone do we worship. You alone do we beg for help. Guide us in the straight way. The way of those on whom you bestow graces. Not the way of those on whom wrath is brought down, nor those who go astray. Ameen.
I bear witness that there is no G-d but One, Allah. I bear witness that Muhammad is His slave servant and His messenger. Brothers and sisters, and when I say brothers and sisters, I’m speaking to everyone who is listening who listening to my voice. I like to at this time express my appreciation for the Reverend Jim Jones and the great community that he heads, the Peoples Temple Church. In time, maybe we all will realize one day, jus how much the world is indebted to the steps that had been taken this day. Thank you, Reverend. 
I wish to begin my address, my contribution to this spiritual jubilee with a reading from the Quran. Quran chapter four, verse 132 reads, "And to G-d belong all things in the heavens and on earth, and enough is G-d to carry through all affairs." The same chapter, the following verse, "If it were His will, He could destroy you, oh humanity, and bring another, for He has the power to do this." The same chapter, the next verse, "If anyone desires a reward in this life in G-d's gift is the reward both in this life and of the hereafter. For G-d is He that sees and hears all things." The fifth chapter of this Holy book, the Quran verse 51, "To each among you--" Speaking to those faiths. To each among you faiths, or religion. "To each among you faith, have we prescribed a law and an open way. If G-d has so willed, He would have made you a single community, but His plan is to test you in what He has given you. So, strive as in a race in all virtues or goodnesses. To G-d is the goal of you all."
I conclude this reading from the Holy Quran. I would like to make a few comments and then present the message that I have on me to present to you today. In the first verses that we read from chapter four of the Holy Quran, we see that it is G-d alone who owns everything and has power over everything. And If people want the spiritual blessings, then those spiritual blessings should be sought in G-d's presence, at the door of G-d. Likewise, if the people want a heavenly life in the material sense, they should seek the rewards at the door of Almighty G-d. Many people have made every effort in their power to gain the pleasures of the spiritual world. Many of them, I would say most of them, failed.
Many, as you know and understand, have made every effort within their power to gain the material blessings. Most of them, as you would bear me witness, have failed. Why? Well, the message is an old one. One that you’ve heard over and over again. It is because they have not given themselves to G-d. What does it mean to give yourself to G-d? Well, let us comment on the next verse, and then we'll get into our talk. The verse I read, verse 51 from chapter five of the Holy Quran, tells us this, "That Almighty G-d has never imposed His way on anybody or on any community. Almighty G-d’s way is an open way. Come whosoever will. Whoever has the desire, let him come. La iqraha fiddeen. Let there be no compelling people to worship in the faith. Let there be no force or compulsion in religion.” This is the teachings of the Holy Quran.
If you understand the Bible and the Scriptures of other established religions, you'll agree with us that this is also the teachings of their religion or of your religion. But you have gone astray because of the lack of knowledge. Let us continue commenting on this verse. If G-d says that the world or the community, was one, and the Holy Quran teaches us this, and He himself allows the world or the community at large, to become different communities. If He sent Moses to lead a community and that people followed Moses and remained in the earth until today. We call them the Jews. If He missioned Jesus, the Holy Prophet, to lead a community of people and that people have followed him until today and they are a distinct community. If He missioned Muhammad, the Universal Prophet, to guide a community or the world community, and a community- or a section of the world followed him and that community has survived until today. And He, in His own words, says in the Holy Quran here that "If He had willed, He could have made our community one community." But He sends one messenger behind another, and the world became many communities.
This is the will of Almighty G-d. He says that, In this diversity, within a common brotherhood. And believe me, those who say that there is a G-d. That there is a righteous force ruling in creation. That truth is superior and supreme, those who believe that and believe that they should conform to that truth, to G-d's righteousness, they are all brothers in one brotherhood.
It was not the great heroes of the religion that divided us. Jesus came behind Moses and he verified the truth of Moses. He spoke as a brother to Moses. He continued the chain of truth. He didn't separate it. He didn't separate himself from the Old Testament. He didn't separate himself from Moses. But he said, "I came not to destroy the law but to fulfill it." So, he came demonstrating those teachings of Moses that the people had grown too weak to demonstrate. Muhammad came sees beyond them. He didn't break that chain. He verified the teachings of the Old Testament.
He supported the teachings and the teachers of the Old Testament. He spoke of Jesus as his brother in the faith. And he defended the truth of Jesus. He defended the truth of all the messengers of G-d from the beginning until the day when he appeared himself in the lines of the prophets. We find it that there is no division among the leaders of the great religion. There is no division in the family of prophets. The division is in us. If there was no division in the family of prophets and there’s division in us, that alone is evidence that we have strayed from the pure teachings of those prophets.
If we had not strayed from the pure teachings of those prophets, we wouldn't have divisions among ourselves. We would differ as to identity, in a particular spiritual school of thought, but we would not see each other as enemies. The world has become a world of enemies because religious orders have promoted this. They have condemned the other community as being false, infidels, liars, and work hard to destroy the other religious community. Muhammad didn't do this. Prophet Muhammad said, "If synagogues, churches and mosques and monasteries in which the name of G-d is mentioned had not been protected, they would have been pulled down." He taught his followers to protect the sacred houses of other religious communities.
Muhammad, peace and blessings of G-d be upon him, he taught his followers, he taught the Muslims that it is okay for you to pray in a synagogue or in a church. It is okay for them to pray in the mosque. This was a teaching of Prophet Muhammad. He did his best to unite the people. Not physically, but to unite the people spiritually so that they would, again, reflect the true teachings of the Prophet. Today, the Lost Found Nation of Islam in the West, has come into a new role. And that role is to preach the truth, regardless to whom or what. To say what is right whether it hurts me or my near of kin. Whether it puts me in danger or puts my loved ones in danger, we have to speak the truth.
Jesus said, "Know you the truth, and the truth will make you free." Jesus put his hand on many, so the Scripture says, and brought about healing in them. Jesus never said, "Know ye the magic of my hand, and my miracles will make you free." No, but Jesus did say, "Many that I healed, many who were healed, turned back and went into the same filth, the same diseases that they had been delivered from." But he said, I repeat, "Know you the truth, and the truth will make you free." Now, let's go back and look at G-d again. I said in the beginning that G-d is the answer. That if we turn toward G-d, we will have the answer.
What is G-d? G-d is that focus. G-d is that window. G-d is that viewpoint by which or from which, you can arrive at truth. G-d in religion is just not anything that you take to worship. Our religion condemns false gods. The Book says there are gods many and prophets many, and even Christs many, but there is the truth and the truth is one. G-d is one, and G-d's prophets are one. They don't represent two opposing worlds, they represent one world. All praise is due to Allah. Now, brothers and sisters, we want to tell you some cold facts and go our own way.
In the beginning, G-d said, "Let there be light." According to the Scripture, before He said that, there was darkness. And G-d said, according to Genesis, "Let there be light." And the Book said, "And there was light." Then He said, "Let the light be separated from the darkness." So, when we look at Genesis, we find that G-d was after light. What is light? We know light, the physical light, reveals all things that are hidden when there is darkness. We know as men and women of a civilized world that knowledge also, reveals those things that are hidden in your surroundings. The darkness of ignorance hides many things from us but once we get knowledge, we can see those things that we didn't see previously. Is that right?
Congregation: Yes.
IWDM: All right. So, G-d said, "Let there be light. Let there be knowledge." G-d was against ignorance. Every child that's born in the world, male and female, is born in the world knowing nothing about this world. But G-d said, "I don't want that." So, the first thing the baby comes in contact with is the light. The light of this world, the sunlight, the light in your home. Is that right?
Congregation: Yes.
IWDM: Human beings are lovers of light, and light means knowledge. G-d said, "Let there be knowledge." Not false knowledge, correct knowledge. Then, as this development grew, there came into existence a mind that wanted darkness so bad that he created a light that would give the effects of darkness. That light is called the devil's lie. A devil's lie looks mighty bright, and it lights up the world of the ignorant. But that kind of light is the darkest darkness you can ever experience. Let me tell you something, a cold fact. The Bible, as it is without interpretation, it is taken literally, as the honorable reverend was mentioning to us, it is taken that way. As that woman, perhaps, took it- that called him and aggravated a good man, when she should have been aggravating the devils in her own life.
That light creates a world of falsehood. It looks beautiful. It looks good, but the truth will make you free. Jesus said that, "As long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world." How long has Jesus been out of the world? Well now, you know how long the light has been out.

You who understand the Bible, studied in the Bible's colleges or seminaries or whatever you call them, anytime you want to, we can meet in privacy or we can meet before the people. I like to meet before many because if we do a good work, then many get the benefit of that good work. But If you like to meet in privacy, we can meet in privacy, nobody but me and you and my G-d. And I'll show you by the Bible that Jesus light has not been in the world since his crucifixion. Not a physical crucifixion, the crucifixion of his truth. They crucified his truth, and they put a bloody body on the cross to deceive the world.
I know how this sounds to many of you. "He's talking about the crucifix." The crucifix is sacred to us Christian. It's not as sacred to you Christians as you think it is. There is an old spiritual that says, "I hope to exchange this old, rugged cross one day, for a starry crown." That was sincere Christians who sung that song. That was a prayer. They say, "On the hills, stands an old, rugged cross. The very emblem of suffering, shame, and death. But I hope to exchange this old cross one day for a starry crown." What is a star? A star is a body of light in the heavens. They hoped that their head will be surrounded with light one day, and they will put down that crucifix.
In the beginning, there was darkness. When all of us began in this world, there is darkness. G-d said, "Let there be light," and there was light. Why was there light when G-d said, "Let there be light"? Because there was nothing unnatural yet. But when that diabolic mind came into existence, that grafted mentality, that wicked sun of darkness, when he reached his fullness and gained knowledge, scientific knowledge, then he schemed, planned a plan, to make himself a light. The Book says, maybe not your book, but the sacred Book says, that he stole the heavenly fire. Even the Bible too. He stole the heavenly fire.
What do we mean by heavenly fire? The heavenly truth. The wicked mind stole the heavenly truth and transformed it into darkness. But it still had a glow. It still had a light appearance. It had the appearance of light but it was not light. If G-d said, "Let there be light," and then He divided the light from the darkness. This tells us that G-d wanted only one division. The division He wanted was a separation between ignorance and knowledge. A separation between corruption and purity. A separation between truth and lies. This was the separation that G-d wanted. He said, "Let there be light," and there was light. He separated the light from the darkness. Then, He gathered the waters together. The water above was separated from the water below. He established lights in the lower heaven and lights in the higher heaven. It says, "And He made dry land appear in the water, or in the sea.”
We see this picture when we look at the physical world. We see lights above us and lights even above those lights, in the night skies. Is that right? We also see water separated by land, and land standing in the midst of water. These are natural separations. Those people who love the life of moral excellence more than they love the life of greed, materialism, they came together with each other. By them gathering with each other, it leaves the dry land- the materialists, to themselves. Is that right?
Now, we know that light is the reflection of something. Is that right?
Congregation: Yes.
IWDM: Light is a reflection or it is a manifestation of the presence of fire. We have light out there today because the sun is shining. But the sun cannot be touched with your hand as you can touch that light. For the sun is a ball of fire. Is that right?
Congregation: Yes.
IWDM: All right, the sun is a ball of fire. In the beginning, G-d said, "Let there be light. Let there be the manifestation of truth. Let there be the signs of truth." And G-d wanted to bring that truth home to the people. He didn't want it to remain just light. He wanted that light to grow into its real body. He wanted it to make its presence real among the people. I hope you follow what I'm saying here.
Congregation: Yes.
IWDM: All right. The Book tells us that, “G-d is coming.” And we have been looking for a physical person or a personality, when we should have been looking a mentality.
A man's mentality is what puts him in hell, and a man's mentality is what puts him in heaven. Do you understand that?
Congregation: Yes.
IWDM: All right. We have been looking for a person's personality, when we should have been looking for a mentality. A mentality that is of G-d's likeness or of the likeness of G-d, is a mentality that shows or reveals the presence of G-d in the body. Do you understand?
Congregation: Yes.
IWDM: We misunderstood the coming of G-d. Christians have been preaching the coming of G-d. Others have been preaching the coming of G-d. And we have thought that this is the coming of a particular person or that this is the coming of a particular personality. No. It is the coming of a particular type or certain type of mind. It was a mind that put the world on the wrong path. It was the mind of the serpent that put the world on the wrong path. The serpent had no power but his mind. The serpent whispered his seductive word into the body of Eve. And Eve, being nothing but flesh of the human being, and those powers that are bound by the flesh. Eve submitted and the flesh got weaker and weaker, and Adam didn't get any more light.
So, his light grew too dim to keep Eve in the dark, and Eve grew too heavy for him to hold up in the little light that he still had. So, they both fell down into darkness but it was because of the wisdom. It was because of the mind of the serpent, the mind of Satan, going out of him and into the body of Eve and into Adam. Is that right?
Congregation: Yes.
IWDM: The society calls that the biting or the eating of the apple. Well, there's no apples in the world that horrible. You can forget about apples. Start thinking about mentalities.
Let there be light. This is the genesis. This is the beginning. We need light to get started. The first degree of knowledge we get is like light. But the more knowledge we get, the more that light becomes fire. Knowledge lights the world, but fire can break down the world. It can destroy the world. Is that right? The Book says that the beast in the end of the world is seen in the lake, in that sweet water. The sugar diabetes interpretation of scripture.
The beast is seen in that sweet water. And the Bible says in the end of the Book that that beast was seen going down in a lake of fire. So, G-d is going to consume the adversary. He's going to burn up the beast who grew from a worm to a snake. From a snake to a serpent or dragon, and from a dragon to a great beast. He says, “He's going to consume him. He's going to burn him up in a lake of fire.” Let's go back now, and look again at the world and how it is made.
There is fire above. We call it the sun. There's water below, which is descriptive of the human nature. Human nature in its original form, tends to stay down to the earth. We are satisfied with the food. With the clothes and the shelter that we get out of the earth. But there is a kind of mind that is not satisfied with this. Food, clothing, and shelter and a happy social life on the ground is not enough for it. It wants to rise up as a separate and different creation from other people. That's the devil's mind. That's devil mentality.
It wants to make itself a separate creation. "No, I wasn't created like you. I am made different from you. Your limitations are not my limitations. I can ascend to the heavens. You are earthly." This is the devil's mind. Is that right? Water tends stay on the ground. Now water will rise, but it rises when it's touched by the heat of the light or by the heat of the sun. Then it responds to the heavenly light, and it rises up from the ground in the form of a light mist and collects in the higher regions as clouds. And then lightnings flash into those clouds. Fire flash into those clouds and bring about the right condition, to form water drops again. And the water still wants to be on earth. It comes falling right back down to the ground once it gets its purification.
This is the nature of natural human beings, but the unnatural being, he likes to climb up to heaven and stay up there. The Book says, “G-d is going to make a new heaven and a new earth. Because someone has gotten up there that shouldn't be there.
So, I have to make a new heaven. And when I do that, I'll also have to make a new earth because that one that got up there, he also formed the earth below him. So, I'm going to have to kill him and kill his work. I'm going to have to remove the heaven and remove the earth.” We've been preaching about going to heaven, "Oh, If I just can see the other side Jordan. If I just can get over yonder." And right in your Book, G-d says, He's going to make a new heaven. Why have you been praying and hoping the door to heaven? The Heaven that you've known is the old Heaven. You don't want to go there.
We see in the natural workings of creation that fire and water work together. Fire in the heaven, higher regions, work to bring the pure water back down to us. Is that right? So, we don’t have any problem in the natural world. Fire work to bring the water, and water works to bring certain temperature, and the water with the land and the fire, all work to bring about wind. And the wind is also serving the divine plan. They carry rain from a watered region to a dry region. Is that right? Everything in the heavens work together. Now, there's some destruction. There is some violence in the heavens occasionally. But if there was no violence in the heavens occasionally, then weak things will remain weak.
When G-d sends a strong wind along and knock down vegetation, herbage and trees. He’s preparing that particular spot for stronger life. But when you break off and send a strong to knock off the rotten limb, break down the weak tree. Then that that will bear seeds for the next season will be a strong seed. Tear down the weak so that tomorrow we will be strong. That same adversity we arrive at as human beings. We've suffered the loss of a loved one. We've suffered the loss of property. We've suffered hatred. We’ve suffered threats to our physical life. We've suffered hell- a hell, a pure hell. A mental state in this world is hell. We've suffered that, but we stay strong. We remain strong. G-d is knocking down the weakness in ourselves. He's knocking down the rotten timber in our own form, and leaving standing in us only that that is strong so that the next baby who comes from a stronger body, than the one he came from today.
So, understand these things in the workings of G-d. G-d has not created anything bad. But it has been this mind; this wicked, drastic mind, this false mind, that has led us to think that everything got to be either sweet or bitter. Made us to think that there is only sugar and salt in the world. No, this world is a world of sugar and salt, with a sugar-and-salt problem. But that's not G-d's world. In this world there are many things. There is sweet, there is salt, there is sour. There are spices and fragrances, and many things. Is that right?
Congregation: Yes.
IWDM: Sugar and salt only represent extremes, and extremes are bad. G-d didn't want extremes for us. G-d wanted better for us. Is that right?
Congregation: That's right.
IWDM: The Holy Quran says, do not tilt the balance. Don't go off into sugar diabetes, and don't eat salt, all your life. Your mouth will dry up, and you won't be able to speak to people.
Today, I want you to know, and everybody to know who is concerned, that our only interest in the Lost Found Nation of Islam in the West, is the interest in truth. We live for truth, and we die for truth. We don't live for Africans, we live for truth. We don't live for Europeans, we live for truth. We don't live for the rich or for wealth, we live for truth. We don't live for the poor, we live for truth. This world has been set against itself because people have strayed from truth. The Jewish community, they work for power and for wealth. Why? Because they started out as a community having no power and having no wealth. And according to the Book, they were led to the Promised Land.
According to the same Book, these same people who were called Jews, turned away from pursuing wealth and power in the physical world. They repented and they were given the name Israel. Now, the Jews will now try to make you believe that all of their people repented, they took the Satan. He's still around, but we should know that that's not Jew. Jew, as it is known in the world, is not a bad word. It’s a good word. Our Book tells us we can pray in the houses of worship of the Jews, and they can pray in our house. Our Holy Quran tells us that we can eat the food of the Jew, and the Jew can eat our food. The Book is telling that we can share the same roofmand eat at the same table. If the Book is telling us that, it is not telling us to hate Jews. That's our Book, the Quran.
We are to hate, what Jesus called, the father of the Jews. He said, “I beheld your father fall from heaven like lightning. The liar, the murderer from the very beginning.” He called the Jews the children of Satan, the Devil. Is that right?
Congregation: Yes.
IWDM: Well, it is not the Jew that we are against, it's that mentality that the Jew themselves had to struggle with. They wrestled with the angel, and threw the leg, the thigh bone out of joint. According to the old teachings, you know?
Congregation: That's right.
IWDM: And took on a different walk, and went and showed repentance. And from that repentant society, came what we know as a Church society. Is that right?
Congregation: Right.
IWDM: All right, but the same Book tells us that that old serpent, that wicked mentality, hating the Jacobites, he wasn't satisfied. He wouldn't let the church be. The Book tells us that he went and got his hold on the church. And made the church take off the crown from the Gospel and put the crown on materialism. Now, I won't go into this Scripture to show you just where this is, but if you demand it, I'll show you. You will see it as I see it. That the Bible is telling us that the church was deceived by Satan, by the Jacobite people, or by the wicked mentality we call the devil. They were deceived into taking the crown off of the head and putting it on the horn.
You who read the Bible, you might be familiar with this talk. It says, "There were seven crowns on seven heads." Now, we know seven represents a completion. A complete cycle. That complete cycle is the divine cycle. Its number is seven. The Book says that there were seven crowns on seven heads, but there came up another beast. It didn't say that this church was free, and holy, and righteous. It had already come under the beast, but it hadn't reached the degree of materialism that it was going to come into.
The Book says that the second beast came up and gave power to the first. It says that the beast came up with ten horns and with crown for each horn. We have seven representing the divine number, and ten representing the worldly number. In the common world you know, we have one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, 10. But in the spiritual world, we have one, two, three, four, five, six, seven. And that's when we run at a completion. Is that right?
Congregation: Yes.
IWDM: All right. He takes this crown off, of the divine truth, and he puts on worldly ideas and gives the power, of the religion, to materialism. The Book also says that In Daniel, it says that there was a ram that had two horns. One of his horns rose up above the other. This is the horn of knowledge and material accumulation. First, we come into knowledge. As our knowledge increased, our materials increased. Pretty soon, the material accumulation outgrows the knowledge.
This world came into great knowledge, but its material accumulation has outgrown its knowledge. Because of its material accumulation outgrowing its knowledge, the society is like a child. We can't handle the material world that we live in. Right in our home. The material things that we have in our home, they make a slave of us.
Congregation: Right.
IWDM: They drive us to ruin. The great accumulation of material wealth that the nation, America, has brought about, has become too much for its knowledge. It can't manage it. It can't keep it in the right balance. It can't save the society from the bad, negative influences of all this wealth.
For the society is getting sicker and sicker. This new movement here, the movement of truth is a movement against the whole world.
Now let's go and look at a sign that is in the Bible of the new world that is to come. G-d brought about a flood when he was dissatisfied with the old world. It's called the flood of Noah. That flood drowned up, according to the scriptures, all the life of earth, except the few that were saved in the ark. Those few that were saved in the ark, they went out when conditions permitted it, and re-populated the world. It was a flood. What kind of flood was this? It was a rising up of water. Now we know what flood water does. Flood water brings about diseases.
Water that comes down from heaven is pure. But if it comes down too much and breaks its boundary, go over into areas where it shouldn't be. Get over into Satan's hands and into his home. When it's flows back out into our society as the flooding water, it poisons and diseases the society. Is that right? All right. The book says that G-d brought about a flood. The water rose and rose and rose until the flood covered the whole earth, even the mountain tops. What does this mean? It means that even the government leaders, even the established institutions of learning, the knowledgeable leaders, they all were affected by this flooding of the earth.
What does the book say again? It says, "As it was in the day of Noah, so shall it be in the days of the coming of the son of man." The book tells us, as it was in Noah's day, it's going to be as in the end of the world. We're in the end of the world and we have seen the flood. What kind of flooding is this? This is the flooding that is not brought about by the corrupting of revealed knowledge that came down naturally. Corruption of this truth through ignorance. See the people through their own ignorance corrupt G-d's truth! But this one here will be done by the mind.
The book says that the serpent spit out a flood of water to drown the woman and her child. The woman is symbolic of the religious society or the church. The woman spit that the serpent spit up that flood of water to drown the religious society. We know that the same serpent is also called the beast and dragon. And the dragon is seen spitting out fire. Is that right? But its fire is not the fire of G-d. Not the fire that burns up falsehood. This is the fire that burns up truth. Do you understand?
But since G-d had designed his world so that nothing is completely lost. What you burn up, go right back into the cycle. And In time G-d brings it back in any form he chooses. Is that right? So, the serpent's fire is not strong enough to destroy the truth forever. He will only make the truth fragment. He will only make the truth fragment. He will fragment the truth and throw a piece out there and a piece out here, and make it impossible for us to see the whole picture. But in time, G-d will bring about a natural condition that will bring the truth back all to the people.
The book, the holy Quran, speaks of a time piece, “sa’a”. It says that G-d gives from His sa’a. Sa’a means watch, a time piece. It means that G-d's graces. G-d's gift to the people is not subject to your timing. He has His own time piece. The world may deny the poor, the ignorant and the weak and give them bits of knowledge. Bits of truth as they see fit to give it out to them and keep them in a state of starvation so that they can never get strength. But G-d says in the holy Quran, I have my own time piece for giving out gifts to the people. And when My time comes around, I give out My gift and you can't stop it.
What is G-d telling us that he has ordained, that there is a natural movement. You may come today and lie to the people. You may seduce the whole world to become your slaves. But there is a natural thing working in the world. Pretty soon the gentiles will reach their fullness and the end of the world will come about. When that time comes, nothing can save the hand of death that is coming against the wicked. Nothing can hold back the grace of G-d that is coming for the poor. Those who have been deprived.
We have reached that day in time. This is the day. This is our date. This is a new earth. And there's a new heaven. The same old heaven is not around you anymore. The old heaven was a selfish heaven. A hypocritical heaven. A heaven that had the jewels of G-d but they decked themselves with it and threw nothing but rut out to the people. But this heaven is a heaven like the heaven that was preached by the prophets of Almighty G-d. It is a heaven that brings down its purity upon the earth.
And science tells us that with rain come also nitrates. The lightning in the sky brings about nitrates in the rain. When the rain drop hit the world, the earth doesn't only get water, but it gets nitrogen. It gets nitrates that brings about food for the growth of the life. From heaven come both water and food. I'm teaching you science. You who don't remember it, I'm going to refresh your minds. Science tells us that not only raindrops fall but with every raindrop, there's a bit of nitrate and nitrate is the food that feeds the growth of life in the earth. This a sign that All mighty G-d, in His own good time. He will rain down from the natural heaven, water that feeds this earth that is in our hungering human makeup. But also nitrates to bring about the social building up. To bring about the community building up that we need, to have decent homes and decent clothes and decent food.

The old heaven was a wicked heaven and G-d said he locked up the heaven. Is that right? The book said He locked up the heaven. The book said He called the darkness to come over the heaven. The book says that He called the heaven to come on all the world. He sent not a famine of food but a famine of hearing the word of G-d. So, G-d tells us that the world will be preaching around here. Preachers will be preaching. Rabbis will be preaching. Imams will be preaching. But their words will be nothing but empty air. Just nothing but blabble, blabble, blabble. You understand.
That's what we've come to see. We've come to see a religious world of rabbis, priests and imams that have done nothing but spit out wind in the air. No word entered our ear. If it had it would reform, transformed our bodies, but our bodies remain in poverty. They remain in darkness. The darkness of ignorance. Remain in the sickness of moral diseases. Is that right? Because no food from the mouth of G-d entered the ear and went into the body. It was nothing but wind. The book says, my people, they have been travailing to give birth to a child but have let out nothing but wind. This is what we've lived to see. A religious world that have been doing nothing but breaking wind and calling it the word of G-d.

The book says there's going to be a new heaven and a new earth. G-d is going to bring the earth and put it in the place where heaven was. When the earth gets into heaven's sit, it's going to do justice to her because it knows the hunger that is in earth because it was earth itself. Do you understand? All right. The religious leadership has failed the world. Not the government, not politics, not science, the religious leadership has failed the world. Science has given us more material than we can use.
Politics has given us more government than we need. But religion has given us nothing but a broke of broke wind.

Now, I'm not speaking against you. I'm speaking against that that gave birth to you. Let's look at the scripture, and see the responsibilities that is placed upon the religious leadership. G-d didn't leave it to worldly men to defend the rights of the poor. He sent religious teachers to defend the rights of the poor. G-d didn't leave it to the world to give the people some kind of compensation for their labor. He didn't leave it to the world to do that. He sent religious leaders to teach charity. If a man is not justly compensated for his labor, then the religious leadership is to go out and speak for him, and encourage charity among those who're denying him his paycheck. Is that right?
This is the religious leadership, but our world, the religious world, until the day. We're changing now. Not only the Lost Found Nation of Islam, there's many live forces in the new world light, that are coming together. The Nation of Islam is just out in the forefront, on top of the world. I repeat, we are out in the forefront, we're on top of the world.

But many healthy, good elements have been working together to bring about an end of the old world and the bringing in and ushering in of the new world. We would like to see taxes take care of the problem. We would like to see the next President solve the problems of this busing and discrimination, racism. Where are you Pope?

The west has been more in the Pope's hand than it has been in the hands of anybody else. So, I ask, "Where is the Pope?" If you're going to let this world take worldly leaders and wait for worldly leaders to do the things for them, that you have on your own shoulders as your burden. Now, I ask where is the Pope? Imam, where are you? Rabbi, it's time for you to pick up the gospel again and preach again. Come out of your hiding place. The world needs divine men. The world needs men that are taught that their first duty is to serve the needs of the hungering and of the poor.

The world needs G-d’s men. Men that understand how the world was made. Men that understand how human being is born out of dust and clay. The world needs men that are divine, who understand how G-d raised mountains upon earth. Not the mountains that these mountain climbers climb, but the mountains of material power, the mountains of scientific knowledge. These are the mountains that grow up on the world, and look over the valley, and rule from above.
Divine men know how these mountains were raised up. They know how to praise the G-d, and how to make it rain, and how to make that rain wash down the sides of the mountain. And corrode the sides of the mountain, and send that material wealth back down in the valley, so the valley will have some of it.

I ask, "Where is the leadership?" I'll tell you where it is. It's right here on this platform. That's where the real religious leadership is.

Those who stayed in their churches today, stayed in the dens of darkness, the dens of Satan. Those who stayed in their synagogues today, stayed in the dens of Satan. Those who stayed in their mosques today, stayed in the dens of Satan.
I'm not saying you are Satan, but if you stayed there, it's the darkness that's still there in your house that holds more than the light that's in your heart.

If the darkness of your Christianity holds you more than the light of Jesus, then you're in the den of Satan. If the darkness of your Judaism holds you more than the light of your Israel, then you're in the den of Satan. And likewise, if the darkness of your Islam holds you more than the light of the Quran, then you're in a den of Satan.
What does the book say? What did Jesus demonstrate to his disciples, and I'm getting ready to leave in just a few more minutes. What did Jesus say to his disciples? Jesus said, "Wash your feet, wash each other's feet." He didn't teach to wash hands. Jesus taught to wash feet. It is normal for a man to take care of the washing of his hand. Because the hands have to feed your own mouth. So, we take care to see that our hands are not too filthy. We're concerned about our hands, but our feet, they're the filth, yet we are not too concerned. There are more people with stinky feet than with stinky hands.

Jesus is telling us there to wash your feet. The world had been worrying about his hands, and his feet had rotted off almost. Tracking bad filth into my home. You come in to my neighborhood with your dirty nasty feet. You come in to my house and walk on my clean floor with your dirty, nasty feet. So, it's time for us to wash each other's feet. We have to wash each other's feet because feet are farther away from you than your hands. It's hard to pick that foot up and wash it. Even if you're in the bathtub, it's difficult to grab that foot and wash it. It's easy to wash the hands. So, since it’s so hard, we have to help each other and peace be unto you. As- Salaamu Alaikum


