04/27/1975
IWDM Study Library 
Remake The World

By Imam W. Deen Mohammed
In the Name of Allah, the Beneficent, the Merciful. Peace and blessings be upon His Servant and His Messenger, Muhammad forever. Ameen.
As Salaam Alaikum.
To the many dignified guests here with us today. To Minister Jeremiah Shaheed Muslim Shabazz; to all the Ministers here with us today from the Nation of Islam; and to you, our brothers and sisters in the audience. All of you according to our religious teachings are born honorable. So, I greet all of you honorable people in the greetings of peace, the greetings of every Prophet from Abraham to Muhammad, As Salaam Alaikum.
I would like to first thank Brother Abdul Rahman Osman and I asked him to carry my personal thanks to Dr. Rauf, the director of the Islamic Center in Washington, DC, for coming and bringing me a gift that is indeed in my heart, the most valuable gift that anyone can give. The gift of the Word of Almighty G-d, the Holy Qur'an. I also thank him for his lovely gifts, a beautiful reflecting picture of the Holy House, the Holy Mosque and the surroundings there in the Holy City of Mecca.
Being once here in Philadelphia as a resident, and as a Minister over the Temple of Islam No. 12, I I feel at this moment a bit heavy-hearted, almost at a loss for words, being that I have been received as I was received here today.
We were met at the airport with a motorcade that was so long that I thought that some other important person must have been in front of me somewhere. And then to come here, I'm seeing this rostrum here increase in dignity by the presence of Mrs. Goldie Watson, the Deputy Mayor and by Mr. Clarence Farmer, Chairman of the Commission of Human Relations. And by Mr. David Coleman, Commissioner of Records. The only people from the city government that I saw when I was here before were the police.
This is really a big thing and all I can say is Muhammad Temple of Islam Number 12 under your great Minister Jeremiah Shaheed Muslim Shabazz is, "keep on keeping on."
We don't believe in spooks, but I can truthfully say that the Honorable Master Elijah Muhammad and Sister Clara, Muhammad are happy right now. And that one stranger that introduced them to this way of life, Master W.F. Muhammad is happy right now.
We have a subject for you today that we have to explain because we don't want to be taken for showoffs. The subject for today is: "Remake the World. I know that subject sounds big for us. I know one in his own thoughts might say, "I wonder if that man had really thought over his subject." How are these outcast, poor and weak of the world, these small world Muslims. How can they get the nerve to come out with a subject like that, Remake the World?
Brothers and sisters, and we are by nature brothers and sisters whether we recognize it or not. We're the same creation, we have the same biological family. We speak the same language, and we share one common history. Our suffering is one. So, if we aren't brothers and sisters, then I would like for somebody to teach me what brothers and sisters mean.
I'd like to say to you that the job of Remaking the World is not too big for you. It's too big for everybody else but you, but it's not too big for you. Because Almighty G-d, not just today, not just yesterday but for thousands of years, Almighty G-d has been making you big enough for this job. And today we hope to bring you understanding which will enable you to see what we mean when we say we know you are big enough for this job.
First we should say something on the need to Remake the World. If the world has been made right, there's no need to remake it. But if the world has been made wrong, then it needs remaking.
I'm kind of an unorthodox Preacher or Minister or speaker, or whatever you want to call me today. So, bear with me and have patience. And if I should do something or make gestures or move around in a manner that suggests that I don't know the proper formality or etiquette for this kind of pulpit or this kind of gathering, then you just excuse me because I was brought up in a different school.
The first thing they should have done is acquaint me with all this modern technology they have up here. They got some strange equipment up here that I might desire to use, but all I can do right now is just stare at it. I see a pencil so I know there's someplace for me to write. Now don't think I'm primitive now just because this stuff is strange. We're too near the fountain of knowledge to behave like a primitive in the jungle.
The white man's modern inventions invite our intellectual curiosity, but they don't in any way appeal to our need to worship something. We worship only that that is supreme and superior, and his inventions to us are products of a grafted world.
A big child whose body will make us think that the child is an adult. Because he's grown so tall and materially he weighs so much. Six sextrillion tons. But we know something that weighs much more than that. So, we are happy to see the Caucasian mind that we adopted a long time ago, and turned the physical world over to them, we are happy to see them now showing us that they did learn something about it. Our adopted children make us feel proud.
We don't like to call them boy but if we can be excused we'd like to "Boy, you have done alright with what we have given you." All Praise is due to Allah. Not the Caucasian mentality, but All Praise is due to Allah. We know what Caucasian mentality has done to the world. It has raised up mounds of dirt, but has buried with those mounds human beings. And that doesn't speak well for the adopted children in the presence of their fathers.
We didn't only leave with them a great sign of material know how in the pyramids and in other great city systems that they found buried under the sand that revealed that we had technology long before we turned our world over to them.
We also left them wisdom, knowledge, that was designed to develop and preserve civilization. When they came rushing out of the caves, the hillsides of west Asia, called Europe, as little children, literally morally and spiritually, rushed and picked up those things that attract little children. Iron, stone.
Working with those things, they began forming weapons of physical war. And when we looked around, all of a sudden we noticed that the newly arrived man on the scene of civilization was not, in fact, a man, but a grown up in physical form with a child's mind.
But when the general population of Black people had discovered this, it was already too late. Our wise leaders had allowed these children to come into material power. And that power, at that particular time was mainly a power for war.
They came with gunpowder from the Asians. They came with steel and with iron. And they won a battle or struggle with us for rule in the earth.
They got Africa, which was not being called Africa, and put the name of two of their great men on that continent. Africanus is a warrior who battled Hannibal and Africanus the explorer. They put their names on the continent of the Black people that they had subdued. Then they cut up the land and put their own names on the land and divided the people into nations, that were really one nation. And put increased hostility between the families of Africa.
During that same time, they brought our fore parents from that land, by putting them in physical bondage here in North America, in Central America and even in South America.
But mainly here in North America. Here in North America, they established a whole social system or community supported by slavery.
The plantation life is where they stripped us of all the knowledge we had of our motherland and people. And as soon as the parents gave birth to children for slavery, they cast the parent away and save the children. Separated the parent from the children so the parent wouldn't be able to teach the children their land and their people.
If you're cut off from the knowledge of your people and then someone also cuts you off from traditions of your people, then you are helpless to find your way back home. You can't find your way back home, because you don't have books to read and you don't traditions passed down from your mother and father to follow. So, all you can do is just live the life that you're in. And the life they put us in was a life a little below the life of monkeys, horses, mules, dogs, chickens and what not.
"Oh he's come to Philadelphia to teach in the City brotherly love, hatred." No, I'm not here to teach hatred. I'm here to kill hatred. Sometime, we kill the creature and leave the eggs unharmed. But pretty soon the house is infested again with germ carrying pests, because we killed the creatures but ignored their potent, fertile eggs.
The slave history, the slave mentality is something that still hangs on in the total makeup of our people. It is a trouble making ghost in the subconscious and unless we bring it up so that the conscious can see it and deal with it, we'll be a long time around here in slavery.
The worst problem with slavery is not the forms which you understand, to weigh a man, a woman down with yokes and chains and what not. The worst form of slavery, brother and sister, is the slavery, is the enslavement, pardon me, of your mind. And many men and women go around thinking they are free while they are mentally a slave.
The wisdom of this world is so deceitful, it has the power to escape your recognition and go into your mind without you observing it. There's a book out now on the market, Subliminal Seduction. If you haven't read that book you should read it, because this is our job today.
Our job is not dealing with the visible. Our job is dealing with the invisible. And this book tells you how pictures are relayed on television. And done in such way that your physical eye never catch the picture. But the mind being faster than the eye, catches the picture. And the picture goes into the mind without the mind's recognition of it.
And with this kind of commercial exploitation, they direct your behavior. I'm not telling you what we wrote. I'm telling you what they have written. They can make you eat more when they want you to eat more. They can make you eat the things you don't want when they want to make you eat those things.
They create the appetite in you and send you out blindfolded, not knowing what has happened to get those things that they have created in you a hunger for. This is not our knowledge, not our language. This is their trick, their scheme, their process and their language. They themselves have exposed themselves.
All right, why has Almighty G-d allowed this to come out? To help His chosen one. So, dealing with a problem like this and having a hard time reaching you because you're so far from the truth of the world. Your knowledge is so far from theirs; they have kept you out so long, that you're just too far away from the sophisticated world of mind manipulation.
And when we talk to you, we have to talk over and over again on the same thing. We have to repeat it over and over again, hoping that maybe you'll get it the second time around or the tenth time around.
But Almighty G-d, being present today and He has manifested His presence not just to be present, but to rule. This is His day. This is the Sabbath, not Saturday day, not Sunday, but every day now, because the one for whom the Sabbath was made, is here.
So, there's no need anymore to have a sign or religious ritual or service telling of something to come, because that something is here.
Brothers and sisters, the biggest object of subliminal, I think it's called subliminal, right? Seduction. You know what seduction is. It comes from the word seduce, to seduce. So, this biggest object that you can find of subliminal seduction is the so-called white, Caucasian crucifix.
You would be amazed if we could tell you this afternoon just how much that crucifix is loaded with messages that come to your mind without your knowledge and without your observation and direct your behavior.
Not in the way of G-d, but in the way of the big devil himself. We don't have time today, but we have included it today in our talks, I only want to mention it to you while going into our talk today, and that is the subject of Remaking the World.
Why I mention it is for this reason. There is wisdom that can unlock the things on your mind. But that wisdom itself has been locked up with symbolic language that you can't understand without someone to show you the correct interpretation of that language.
We're going to being this talk today of the Remaking of the World, the call to you to Remake the World with some reading from Bible Genesis.
I heard some say that this is nothing new. We don't need a lot of religion. That's been our problem, too much religion. The Honorable Elijah Muhammad said, may the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, he said, "The graveyard of my people is the Bible."
So, if you are to be raised from the grave, you have to be raised from the grave of the Bible. And the work is not over, the Bible is still a graveyard. You don't believe it, maybe you've been away from the church people for a while.
Go back around the church people, visit them in the churches, and listen to what they're saying. If they have an appeal, if they attract you then most likely it's because they have left the old church language. And have taken on the language of the Nation of Islam.
It's not good to leave a thing that has possessed you without understanding it. If you leave it without first understanding it, you haven't really left it. You have only brought about a physical separation between yourself and the thing that once possessed you. But that thing is still working in your hidden thoughts. And is making you still behave in the order or in the way designed by that particular thing that possessed you. I remember hearing a woman once, who said she was a Muslim and said she had been a Muslim for many years. And I happened to be blessed to be near her one day, at a time when some bad news came to her. And the news was shocking and very saddening to her. And she cried out to Jesus. She said, "Have mercy, Jesus." And I didn't bring it to her attention that she was calling on one that, in our religion, is known to be a Prophet and not Allah. I just observed this and kept quiet. After she got settled, she went right back into her Muslim talking ways. I don't think she ever realized yet, that she still was plagued with a Christian mind.
You may say, "What is wrong with a Christian mind? Christ was a good man, Christ was righteous." That is true, that Christ, the Prophet was a good man, a righteous man. The greatest of the Prophets to come to Israel, or the Jews as they're called. But the Jesus Christ that the average Black man and woman have in their hearts and minds is a devil. "Oh, I'm ready to walk out of here now. This man stand up there and say that our Jesus Christ is a devil." No, I'm not saying that your Jesus Christ is a devil. I'm saying that the devil's Jesus Christ is a devil. The devil gave him to you. He was not a devil. "I thought these people wasn't going to call white folks devils anymore." You're misunderstanding me. I'm not calling white folks devils, in fact I'd like to see some white folks. I've never seen any white folks in my life.
But if you're talking to the people, who come sometimes maple color, pink color, red color, red and blue color, gray color, high yellow color. If you're talking about those people, who often have blonde hair and blue eyes, then I'm not calling those people devils, I'm calling the mind that has ruled those people and you, ruled them for their glory and ruled you for your shame and damnation. He said to the Jews, "If you are the Children of Israel, you would love me." He said, "I know your father. He was a liar and a murderer from the beginning." He said that their father was the devil. He said, "And the work of your father, you will do." Now they will do the work of their father, because their father's mind still rules in their body. How can they do any work except the work of their father, when they don't have a mind of their own, they have the mind of their fathers?
I repeat, brothers and sisters, the mentality, the devil's mentality, that germ that rules in the Caucasian body, rule in them for their glory and power over the world. The same that passed onto you and is ruled in you for your shame and your destruction. The strongest power or messenger of that Caucasian mentality is the crucifix that they teach you to love and cherish in the Christian church. It has on it the image of a Caucasian man. They have made the Caucasian image to arouse in you, sympathy, pity, tears of that particular Caucasian image. They have thorns sticking into the scalp of his head, nails driven through the palms of his hand, nails driven through his feet, and then a wound that's bleeding, a wound made by a spear that went into his heart. And on top of that, you're told that he was driven up to this place of crucifixion. They beat him, they stoned him, they spat on him. And placed a heavy weight on his back for him to carry all the way to the place of his crucifixion. That weight was that heavy, heavy cross.
You sit in the church and you just get all upset. Your big old sinful heart, it starts hurting inside your chest. What kind of people would do a sweet man like that, like they did this man? You accept him right away, into your heart, into your arms and into your homes. You put him on your wall and he's always hanging on your wall or in your house, that you don't curse at. Most of you, no matter how good a Christian you say you are, when you get mad, you come out with all those big, unwritten adjectives. And as Black as you say you are, in your mind, with your natural, you pick up the word Black and throw it at the members of your house sure enough that you still think it's an ugly word.
You Black SOB. You dirty, low, Black MF. I told you, I don't go along with the formalities. I don't go along with the old formalities. You ugly, flat-nosed, nappy haired, dark skinned nigger. Get out of my face before I put my foot in your big nigger lips. And the same person comes out the house with a natural, and a bunch of Black books in their arms. You can't wake yourself up, G-d has to wake you up. All Praises be to Allah. It's time for us to get out of the color slavery. That's why Master WF Muhammad told the Honorable Elijah Muhammad, Peace and blessings upon them, he told him that the white folk or white man is not really white. He said he's so-called white. So, what he really is, is a colored man. What did he mean by that? He meant that this man, in the white man's language of white supremacy, white means pure, divine, G-dly, of the family of the son of G-d, Jesus Christ. The yellow hair, pale face, blue-eyed man on the cross.
So that is what the Ku Klux Klan is telling you, when he tells you he's white, he's telling you that "I'm G-d. Don't you see I look like Jesus. We are one blood. And if you don't bow down to us, we are telling you, "Boy, I'm going to bring the sign of my Christ and burn it on your lawn and sling you up on a tree." So let us now have a little moment to think on color problems. I was never raised to think white meant anything special, so I never had any color conflict. The color of a person never meant anything to me. If he was pale faced, with blue eyes and blonde hair, but behaved as a human being, I respected him. And I was not afraid of him. But I was wildly suspicious. I never accepted him until he proved to me that he was not untrue to the label. I hope you understand.
See, the Muslims didn't call them white folks, they gave themselves the name white folks. And the history of white folks is the history of a devil. So, if there is something that is not true to that devil mentality that have ruled in their bodies and made that devil history, then they have to show me. I'm not going to take them on face value. This is why no wise man picks up snakes without knowing them. Some are poisonous and some are not. But you have to know them first, and if you don't know them, stay away from them, brothers and sisters. I'm not here to humor you. I'm serious, very serious. Though some of this I'm going to say might be a little humorous, in fact sometimes it's just outright funny. I remember, as a child, I used to look at the people, sometimes I used to look at them so much, it made them uncomfortable and if I wasn't a child, I wouldn't have done that. As I've grown up, I know better than to look at people like that.
I saw once, two girls arguing. One girl was very light, she was so light, she was as light as a white person. But she didn't have the keen features. And she had straight hair like the white people, you see? So-called white people. And they were just cursing each other out and she was getting the best of the dark one, the Black one, because the whole world was on her side, against the Blacks. And the Black one didn't have no terrible white adjective to throw back at the light-skinned girl, you see? That was back there, about 20 years ago. All the Black could say was, "Blacker the berry, sweeter the juice." And she was saying it. But this old white girl was throwing so much on her, I thought she was about to start crying. All she was saying, "The blacker the berry, the sweeter the juice. The blacker the berry, the sweeter the juice." And what made it so pitiful, the girl was too small to whip this big, old, ugly light faced girl, you see?
So, I'm sitting up there, at a distance there and I'm observing the two. I never heard that color problem, my parents didn't raise me like that. I was born in Islam. So, I'm looking at them to see which one is telling the truth. You ugly this, you ugly this, you ugly this. Well I started examining that light skinned girl face, and she looked like a shaved orangutan with the lips turned outside. She was so messed up that she had to be light to hide the mess up. Really, brothers and sisters, I think it was the Mercy of Allah, that she wasn't born in this Black mind and this Black awareness time period. It was the Mercy of Allah to hide her ugliness with lightness. She looked like something that you could bring out in the dark and turn the light on right away and frightened an army off their post. I'm not joking. Now she wasn't the only light faced girl that I recall seeing and thinking that she was just out of sight. It looked like every artist had a hand in making her, and its intention was to destroy art.
You know what? We do have a color problem, brothers and sisters. It has been sown into our minds so long, from generation down to generation, until now, we just live Black inferiority. We can talk Black superiority, but because of this being hidden in the corners our mind and spirit, we live Black inferiority. Time to wake up. Excuse me, I'm pulling out my pocket watch here, so I can see the time. I don't want to hold you here too long. It's still early. I didn't know it was that early. I know it. He told me, he said, "That's Chicago time." I know it, but I didn't want you to know it. Some things are better brought out in the open anyway. It's a little after 4:00, but we going to go on. Because we have to be true, since we're here in Philadelphia, with the Muslims of Philadelphia, we have to be true to the spirit, that Muslim spirit of Philadelphia. People, keep it up.
How often have you heard the Black flag wearing brother in our community, the one who even want his dress shirt to be black, red and green? He want socks that's black, red and green. He come out with some water, wearing shoes, black, red and green. His cap, black, red and green. He is Black, Black, Black through and through. And when he talks, he says, "Yes. she got good hair. Yeah, man. That broad so fine, man. Got good hair too." What he means to say is he has nappy hair or kinky hair. But he says he has bad hair and she has straight hair, especially when he says she has good hair, you see? I don't see people, when they are buying fabric in the fabric market, and I have been in the fabric market, buying goods, I don't see them picking nap material and saying, "Give me a piece of that bad carpet. Give me a piece of that bad cloth."
They say, "I would like to have this woolen mat, rug." It's not bad when they referring to it off their own bodies. But when it's on their own bodies, "Oh, bad haired nigger." Who has taught you it's bad? What's bad about it? It's hair. It protects your head. It's strong hair. It looks more like sheep hair than it looks like monkey hair. And the book says of Christ, "That his hair was quite like lamb's wool." But the Christ on the cross we see, and carry, has hair like monkey hair. So, what's wrong with you talking about your hair is bad because it's kinky? "Oh, I can't comb it." Stop using a white man's comb. He made that comb for his monkey hair. You go get you a comb for your sheep hair.
You've neglected it so long, now it doesn't even look healthy to you, just like a nice, beautiful, attractive, nappy rug, that you go to the store and buy today, that you care nothing about. If you leave trash on it, if you let anybody walk in off the dirty streets and track mud all over it, you never wash it, you never vacuum it, pretty soon it is going to be ugly and unattractive. But when you bought that nappy rug, it looked pretty. Your nappy rug is also pretty when it comes here, but you start neglecting it. I don't care how nappy your hair is, if you will clean it, take care of it, give it half the attention that you give that monkey hair, and it will be clean and pretty and becoming to you, and healthy, and strong. A Black man with a head of hair, you hit him on his head and you have a cushion between the blow and the skull. You go hit a white man on his head, you feel bone right away. There is no cushion between the bone and the blow.
Now he has a disadvantage over you. I mean, he has a disadvantage and you also have a disadvantage. Your hair is not made for the kind of climate that he is used to. Your hair is made for the climate that you were brought up in. That climate was a hot and humid climate, and your hair is kept together like a mat. It's close together, it doesn't go out straight, it curls. So, what happens is this-The moisture forms in your hair and your hair holds the moisture. It's not stringy, so the water doesn't just run out, run down and drop, it accumulates. It fills ups that sponge that you have for hair. That's supposed to keep your head cool in the hot, humid weather. The Caucasians see a Black woman or Black man perspiring profusely, sweating heavy you see, and they think they're in misery. Now, the Black person was only in misery before he started sweating. Once they start sweating, they feel pretty good.
Water is a coolant, is that right? So, we're just talking about this thing, trying to reason with the color problem before going on to our subject. We have to first see what is wrong with the world, to understand the subject, Remake the World. Let's take a look now, at nature itself. And see if we see color superiority in nature. The earth is many colors, it is a many colored earth. I have been blessed to travel outside of this part of the world, into the East and into the South, the Caribbean, Africa and Asia. And I have looked at the soil, the ground. I find some soil black, I find some gray, some white red, and different shades. When I come back home after seeing all that, I said, "All of Elijah Muhammad's wisdom is truly great." He says in one of his writings, which is in the book called "The Theology of Time." This is a book that is not on the market, but the materials have gone out in the newspaper and in other publications. This book is preserved.
The Theology of Time, he says in this book, 'The color of the universe is the sun. The human being himself, in creation, are a product of the divine scripture. He states with the language that was the same as that language we find in the scripture. He spoke in the language of symbolism. Symbolic language. But he spoke great wisdom. The sun, he's telling us in that book, that the sun gives color to the earth. And all of the colors are in the sunlight. And we know that when we see the rainbow after the rain, when the sun is still shining and the clouds have passed, but the mist is still in the air from heavy rain. By the penetration of the sun rays, we see in that mist a rainbow that reveals the six basic colors. Is that right?
So, when we look at the soil of the earth, we see the gift of the sun making some black. Well, you may say, "Well, black is not a color." No. Black is not a color. Black is the effect from colors being absorbed into each other. And what we call white is the effect of colors being reflected all together. So, in the creation, in the earth, we see white, we see black, the results of an extreme. Both are extremes. And in the color scale, we see the colors of the rainbow, which are the colors of the sun revealed to our physical eyes. Is that right? All right. Then again, I thought and reflected on the Holy Qur'an, where it describes the colors, how they run together at the top of some mountains. The black, the white, the green, the red, running together at the top of the mountain, in the rocks.
Taking on this, then I saw a big lesson in this from the Holy Qur'an and great new things. I won't go into it and I'll keep moving.
Then one day, just for the fun of it, I decide to just think on colors in nature. In a lot of ways, I say, "How can the white man think everything white is pure?" Maggots are white and no white man will tell you a group of maggots are pure. Then I thought about the fly. I said, "Well, I've seen black flies." Black flies and white maggots.
I told you this to say one thing and that is this. It is not the color of the material, it's the color of that that lives in and rules over and directs the material. We don't have some colors for that, that rules in the physical body. The Bible and the Holy Quran say it's the color, that view of a person that lives in and rules in the body, is righteousness. We are told by both the Holy Qur'an and the Bible to color ourselves with the color of righteousness.
"Well, I don't care what you say, Mister. I know white people are devils. White is devil. I know that." You do? Who told you that? All right. In the book, this book, the Quran, we are told that G-d made a man, that man to rule. After making the man, the Holy Qur'an says He taught the man the nature of things. If we read this Holy Qur'an with an adult mind, come away from the baby mind. We are no more a baby nation, we are a young adult nation. We have grown ups now looking to us for guidance and for sense upon the nations of the world.
They see now that this is no baby over here in the Black community of America. If we expect now to keep this respect and recognition that we have gained by the hard work and sacrifices of our Elijah Muhammad, may Peace and blessings be upon him, and by the hard work and sacrifices of those that follow him until the end of his time among us. If we expect to keep the recognition that we have gotten from other people and other nations, we have to prove to them that we are adults and not still babies.
What is meant now about the nature of things? It means the true identity of the thing. Now how can I be sure that I have rightly identified a thing? I can only be sure when I have seen and understood that thing's nature. If there is a devil or an enemy mentality ruling in Caucasian people then I can truthfully say, if I have discovered this to be a fact, that the Caucasian people are the living devils on Earth. But if I can't prove that there is an enemy mentality lurking and luring in the Caucasian, this body of the Earth, then I can't prove them to be a devil because I haven't been able to identify them.
A thing may take on several and different natures. If you're raised in the jungle without a parent, without human beings, you might come up as a wolf, as a monkey. You might even imitate their sounds. I'm not telling you what we think, I'm telling you what we know. If I talk, I make sounds like them. Why? Because the human creatures are different from all other creatures of the Earth. We were not made when we were physically made. We come into the world from our mother's womb as empty vessels, and the world that we're born in has to fill the empty vessel with a mind, to rule and to dwell in the kingdom we call the vessel. I hope you understand what I'm saying.
So, the Scripture tells us n clear language but we have been so far from the track, we can't understand it even when we hear it. It's told to us that in the beginning there was the word, and the word took on flesh. What does that mean? It means simply this. That what comes into our flesh bodies, when we're delivered from the flesh womb of the body of our mothers, is the same that stores us in our flesh bodies and that thing was before our flesh body.
When did men start thinking in the Earth? No history tells us. When did the first thought come into existence? No history can tell us. So, we as an inward person, we as a real person ruling in the flesh, we have no birth record. We are the soul of the world. All right, pay attention to me now. If you be patient and listen, you'll get understanding.
You can be born twins, a physical twin, and grow up to be more unlike each other than any other brother and sister in the family, than any other two brothers and sisters in the family. It doesn't mean that you're going to be alike because you physically come looking alike. I saw many times that twins also look alike in their minds and in their spirits. That's because they liked each other and perhaps there was nothing happening in the house to make them dislike each other.
But as one of the twins senses that the mother or the father is trying to force him to be like his brother or sister, he will begin to rebel against this, knowing that it's an individual too. It might come up resisting the influences that the other one accepts. The result will be that these people will be far apart as persons, though they are identical as flesh.
What does this tell us? This tells us something that might be too strange and too heavy for your mind to bear. Too foreign for your imagination. But it's the truth, you've been hearing it in the Church all your life. Allah, the G-d Himself makes us. We're only born physically from our parents, but G-d Almighty makes us. He allowed some of us to be made with certain materials and others, He denied them those materials and they had to be made with different materials.
He allowed some of us to come up like our mothers, some of us to come up like the father. Some to come up like being neither like mother nor like father. Like maybe uncle or aunt, or grandfather or grandmother. Don't think of yourself as a physical creation. You were the soul of the physical creation. The physical creation comes up from the Earth, out of the Earth. The Earth produced minerals, plants and us. The Earth produced your place so that you would have a place to drive in, a place to come into.
All right now. In the beginning, we were formed alike according to the Holy Qur'an and Bible. In the beginning, we were formed alike, but we went off from that right way of thinking and became thinking foreign to the ways of our very nature. Once you began thinking foreign, or strange or unnatural, you began to entertain foreign, strange and unnatural ideas and thoughts. What comes about when this happens is a new language.
The Holy Qur'an says, and the Bible has it to, that once the people were one people, their language was one language. What does this mean? It means this- That once, they had truth coming to them. Once their society, their community was filled with the language of truth. It was the language of truth that turned them into the vessel we call the physical body.
So, they walked alike because they were formed rightly. But something happened and they went astray from the right course and lost their ability to speak right language. So, the language was no longer the word of G-d, it was the word of grafted creation. So, when the word of the grafted went into the new vessel coming from its mother, it made a grafted person in that new vessel. That's something. Do you understand it?
Jesus said, "As a man thinketh, so is he." We could take the time if we had to and we could show you individually, and if you had any good sense at all, we could bring you to agreeing with us that every person is formed or created by means in the physical body, by words, language. Is this sophisticated blackboard working? How do you work this? Do you write right over here? I hope you can see here? Yes, okay. What is that? All right, okay. Thank you.
Now, let us see what we have here now. What do we mean by language? If I put a one there, can you see that 1? Oh, it's supposed to be there in a minute, I hope. And we have to thank our children, for manufacturing such a convenient device.
Yes. Now, if you look there, there's my crooked 1 there, you see? Now, let's put a 2. You see? You see now, I call these words. But in G-d's wisdom, I'm writing words. Not only in G-d's wisdom but in the wisdom of the wise of this world. They understand that I'm writing words. A word is that, that brings a message to your mind. And everything that I'm doing is bringing a message to your mind, is that right? Can you see this, what I'm doing?
You don't call these words but they are. What are you doing now? You're getting words. Okay now, think about this. When the baby comes from the mother, the eyes open and the baby sees something. The little eyes are open. With all the words being spoken to the child, the child has received a word, not only a word, many words. The images that the child sees, they are words going to the mind of the child.
Everything in your environment are words speaking to your mind, forming you in the body. The books, the language of your parents, the talk in the home, the words you heard in the streets. The physical things that you looked at and thought about, and that you looked at and didn't think about. All of these things have acted as words and have gone into your mind and have formed you, and they are forming you for as long as you live in this world.
What I am telling you is this. That the process of making or creating human beings never stops. It goes on all the time. Now, if you don't want yourself to be created in ill, weak, bad, ugly, diseased form, you have to get wise to the language of the environment and start selecting the things you want to go through your mind.
All Praise be to Allah. Now, let's stay on this subject here.
I'd like to now put your minds where I need to you to hear something. Will this one work? Yeah, this will work. Let's go now to something else. Still on this idea of everything being words. Now, don't be a fool now and go away from here this evening and tell somebody, "Look, man. You see that car, that's a word." You don't have to explain it as I have explained it. If you don't do that, then he will see a word in you.
Oh, yeah. That's right, now we've got it. You see that? That's the way you work this. We are up here erasing our children's blackboard without knowing that our children have invented a new way to erase the blackboard. All right, let's go back here on this. Well this is a whiteboard. This thing looks more white than black. When you look right down into it, the aim is to try to make it white. It's gray. All right.
Let's go back now. Well, that's good it's gray. Gray has black and white in it. Let's see here now. Let's see. We want to write here, 1,2,3. Now, let's go to the Bible, Genesis, and see if we can get some understanding of the Trinitarianism that's found in the church. It's very important to us. Let's go now to Genesis, Chapter three, beginning with verse 14. I think, first, because many of you are not too familiar with the Bible, I think first, I should bring you up to this point.
In the Bible, we are given a picture of a man that G-d makes from the ground, because He made him from the dust of the Earth. In other places, the same body is called clay, that He made him from clay. What it means here is that He made him from Earth without life. Dust is lifeless and clay is lifeless. Earth has one symbolic message and clay has another symbolic message. Dust means that there are some people like dust. Because when opposition comes against them, they can't stand, they just blow everywhere.
Then there are some people like clay. When opposition comes, they hold their state. Opposition is called wind in scripture. When the wind of opposition blows against the dust, it just scatters it everywhere. But if the wind of opposition blows against the clay form, it stands and it takes a lot of wind to blow a clay body away. Is that right?
But in this clay body now, the clay is a vessel. The person is put into the clay, or created into the clay vessel, or from the dust. The book says that He formed the man of the dust of the Earth. Is that right? It says that He breathed into him of His Spirit, and he became a living soul. Think about this now. The soul first went into the vessel. He was not called a living soul. When you get this in the church, we think that it means that G-d formed us physically from the Earth and then He caused a spirit to come into us and then we become a living soul.
When we are formed out of the Earth as human beings and we come in human form, we are already living. Before the form takes human shape, it's alive as a germ, in the womb of its mother, and it grows over a period of about nine months normally. Is that right? When it comes out in human form, it's already alive. So, it's not at that moment that it becomes a living soul. So, we have in Genesis a description of a human being shape and the shape was there but the being was not living.
This is not talking about biological life. It's talking about Divine life. There are many around on this Earth right now. In fact, most of the people you see walking the Earth, they are unborn adults. They are creations from the Earth that the Divine has not entered. So, they are stuck on Earth and they are cloned in the state and in the image of people but they are not people. According to the language of the scripture. Not my language, the language of the scripture. All right. Let's go now and see.
You have a human image, a human image now. Looking at that image won't tell you whether the person is alive, humanly or dead. Looking at the image doesn't tell you whether the person can even respond to you if you say something to them. You have to get some indication, or you have to have some kind of a communication with something behind the flesh before you can really know that this is indeed a living, fully-formed human being. Is that right?
The physical image may be a retarded person. Maybe just a lump of flesh with no ability to respond at all except as flesh. We don't know until we have some kind of communication with that that's in the flesh. Is that right? All right. Bear with us now.
So, the Book teaches us that He made the man from the dust of Earth, clothed him and then breathed into him of His Spirit. This is not the creation or the making of the first person on Earth. This is the creation or the making of a Divine person on Earth. This is a Divine person that is being made. All right, let's try go on now with this.
In the human being, we have what the Bible calls Adam, which is nothing but the physical mate. Now that Adam doesn't become a living Adam until divine enters him. We have will. We have something called flesh, but I'd rather call it something else here. Let's see, can we get a better name for it here. Hogishness. How do you spell hogish? H-O-G-I-S-H-N-E-S-S? Is that hogishness? Hogishness.
Then we have something else, see we have 1,2,3 here. Keep that in mind. We have something else called wit, W-I-T. Wit. Now wit is something in the intellect that glorifies in its own creation. Is that right? I want you to understand this now. I'm not talking about intelligence now. I'm talking about wit, of a certain part of your intellect. Men battle each other with their wits. Is that right? When one is losing the battle, we say it seems that that particular person is coming to his or her wit's end. Is that right? Running out of the ability to shoulder knowledge.
So here in this man that is made from the Earth, we have something manifesting after he dies. Listen to the language of this.
Yes, I know. I know you've got things to do but this is very important, and you might not realize it but this is wisdom more vital in those workings that grow to make for the development of the human world. This that we're talking about now is more valuable than anything you can get from the colleges and Universities of the world.
Let's go back to the gray board here now with white in it. It's all right. We have three things coming into being from the Earth. We don't have the birth of Adam, do we? We are told that Adam was formed from the dust of the Earth, meaning that Adam exists before the Earth. If he was formed from the dust of the Earth, that means that here we have dust now, we formed dust together. Now, if we have Adam here in this dust, then Adam really existed in Earth form before he came into man shape, or man human image. Is that right?
What does this tell us? It tells us that in the dust or in the Earth are the essence of human life. It’s that human life comes with the Earth. Do you understand? So, if human life comes with the Earth, then whatever created the Earth, in that was also human life. Then human life has no beginning. It is from time unmarked, undesignated. We can't go back and mark the time for the beginning of the human being. But in this earthly shape, we say it began with the Earth, is that right? All right.
Now, G-d in His language, He's telling us that the spirit of the life, that it's in the Earth, the essence of the human life existed before the Earth. G-d said it with these words. He said that, "When I breathed into him of My Spirit. When I breathed into him of My Spirit, he became a living soul." Is that right? A living soul. Meaning that he was dead because he was separated from divine, not because he didn't exist but because he was separated from divine. But once I put divine back with him, once he is connected back with divine, he becomes a living soul. Is that right?
When the man was formed of the ground, he had already left the divine in him. He was already dead divinely. But when the breath of life came into him, it was not as the Bible, Genesis, will make you think, the breath of divine origin. This breath was the breath of a grafted world order. It was the breath of something false or contrary to divine.
So, what happened? The man came to life and he saw a need for a wife. Is that right? The Bible doesn't call it a wife, that says that G-d saw that the man should not be alone. The man felt lonely. He needed something for himself. So, the book says He made for him a Help Meet. And the word itself H-E-L-P is two words in the Bible. M-E-E-T. Help Meet. This word Help Meet is referring to the physical environment that we come to life in. Not the woman, as you have been taught. It's referring to the whole physical environment. In this early part of Genesis. It goes on to refer to the physical environment in its higher evolution. First there's nothing but simple earth. There's nothing but the simple, bare, crude, raw creation. Then later this woman is called religious church or the religious body. And also, the woman is called the biological woman, a man's physical wife. But physical wife is the least thing that this book is talking about. The main thing it is talking about is the church, the Christian church.
Man, how can Genesis be talking about the Christian church? Genesis was before Moses. Not this Genesis. This Genesis was written about five to 600 years ago. It were written for the church by the wise Judaic teachers of the Gentile. I don't have time to go through it all with you today. Well, if you don't believe we have wisdom, bring the wise here let them challenge us. If the man went under a deep sleep, is that correct? After he went under deep sleep, a rib was taken out of him. And with the rib, a woman was made. Now, do you know that there are people foolish enough to really believe that that actually happened like that? Intelligent people. This is possible because they were raised to think this way. You can't bring a man from China who never was raised in a Christian community and tell him that story and get him to accept it like that. You'll confuse him so much that he will speak some language that whatever won't even be Chinese.
G-d is not some weird magician that brings earth together and then turn it into flesh all of a sudden and then reset it and take out a rib from a person He already made complete. If He needed that rib how come He didn't leave it out in the first place? See, that's the description of a experimenter. That's the description of someone doing haphazard work or a patch up job: To take a man, say that he needs a woman. Then go back into the man and tear his chest open and get a rib out to make a woman. Now, what is written in the Genesis is wisdom and it makes a lot of sense. It makes all the sense when you interpret it rightly. But without the knowledge to read the language properly, you are lost.

What is the rib here now? And who is this Adam? This Adam is Jesus the Prophet that G-d made. And then after making him, he turned him over to the world. The man was complete and perfect when G-d made him. But when he turned his body, that is his teaching. His thought, his mind. When he turned it over to the world it felt under a deep sleep. It was only perfect and right as life as it was in Jesus. And Jesus was with G-d. But once Jesus was taken away from G-d, (Meaning that he left the world, passed away or died) Then the Jesus at that particular body of spiritual knowledge, wisdom and understanding it was given to the world. The word is called G-d.
And in the world it went to sleep. Fell under deep sleep. And it began to have a desire, it felt lonely and it needed something. It wanted something. So, the book says in Genesis that G-d said it's not good that the man should be alone. Meaning that it's not good that the Christian community, the early Christian community should be lonely and suffering like it was. Now what G-d is this speaking? This is not the Creator of the heavens and earth. This is the creator of the church. He's saying that it's not good for the Christian community to be alone now. It's small and persecuted and suffering. We have to give it a help meet. There's much in this, we don't have time to give it all to you. We have to give it a help meet. So, what will be his help meet now? Material growth, material accumulation. The church needs some material wealth.
The scripture tells us that the woman was made from the rib of the man. "Rib of the man" means from one of the bones that is weak and flexible. You can bend it out of shape and it is close to the heart. The rib is close to the heart. What bone is this and what do we mean by bone?
Bone means a body of knowledge. In divine language, bone means knowledge that is strong enough to support the moral form of the people like your bones in your body are strong enough to support your flesh. This god that is doing the work of grafting (not the real G-d) takes from the total body of knowledge that Jesus left in the world the weakest body of knowledge in the total body.
It was what we call sentimentality, emotionalism. That's the rib that was taken out of that body of knowledge called Jesus in Genesis to make the church. What happened is that the man (the church) turns, where it was once united with Go-, to his wife (the new Church).
This new Church is not Jesus' body, but this Church is made of Jesus' body. The man turns to it and listens to it instead of listening to the G-d that formed Jesus himself. What happens to the true spirit, the true mind, the wisdom body or knowledge body of Jesus? When this happened, it fell asleep. There was nothing to continue to feed it. It was no longer in touch with the Divine makeup. It only had emotionalism feeding it so it went into a deep sleep.
The book says that there is one tree, one tree was pointed out to Adam. Said that, "Don't eat of this tree. The day you eat of it, you'll surely die." What is this forbidden tree? "But if you eat of it, you'll surely die." It is mixed up knowledge. Lies mixed with truth. Religious truth mixed up with religious lies. It's a tree of religious lies and religious truth growing together in one tree. And when you eat the fruit of that tree, you are eating a body of knowledge, a religious body of knowledge that looks like religion, but when it goes into you, there is lies. Religious lies in that fruit. So it kills you spiritually. It kills you as a divine person. "Oh, I don't believe that. I know I'm a good Christian. It didn't kill me." Well maybe you're not dead yet. You're dying. You hold on to it, you'll soon be dead.
Let's go back here now to these three things. You have in the human form, willpower. You also have in the human form wit. That part of the intelligence that glorifies in its own pattern. Likes to show off. That wit in man was once not a show off thing in man. It was humble and submissive. It was agreeable with the divine dictate. When it was in that form it was upright. Upright, all right, upright like this. In Genesis, the serpent is defined as an upright person before it committed sin. Like this. Is that correct? But when the serpent committed the sin, now remember this serpent here is wit, wit. Pardon me, here the serpent is not wit, it's intelligence. Obedient intelligence. But when it committed sin, then it was cursed to go like this on earth according to Genesis. Can you see those?
What does this mean now? It means this, that if you turn your intelligence into a tool to match wits with the divine being, you will fall down on earth. Because G-d will no longer feed your intelligence. So, it won't remain upright. It won't have the power to stand up against the gravity of materialism. And it will fall down on the earth crawling like a snake. And it will be cursed to lick the dust. That means it will be cursed to feed upon nothing but materialism. And that will prevent its divine growth, the continuation of its divine growth. All right. What we have here in the story now, the willpower that in the man originally it was will, that was given to creation by G-d from His own will. And the will came into the world and became intelligence. And in the world it was upright until it rebelled against its own Maker. When it rebelled against it's own maker. Intelligence fell down from intelligence to wit and wit is not always intelligent. Do you understand? All right.
Let's see can we now take from our common language something that will help us see this. In our common talk even today, we may speak of another person as being a low creature. "That man is a low so and so and so." We mean that he's still carrying his old language from hundreds and thousands of years ago. We mean that he grovels like a snake on the ground. You see? Out of view. Crawling low so he can hide in the grass. He can't get up above the earth, you see? All right, let's see if we can move on with this, the time is flying. Where does the hoggishness come in now? The hoggishness comes in the woman. The woman in the early part of Genesis is hoggishness. Can't control your appetite. G-d said don't eat certain thing but you're so hoggish, you can't obey it. You have to eat everything. You see?
So, the wit, the serpent in the form of wit comes to the weak person who can't control this hoggish appetite for everything. Works against the willpower in the person, tried to go around willpower in the person they know if they appeal to your willpower, suddenly the eye and the ear of your willpower come open. And you say, "Nah, I want to be stronger than this." Right? So, they leave the willpower sleeping and they come to you in that form called the hoggish, or the serpent. And the serpent said, "Well, G-d didn't mean that you will surely die. You won't really die. Your eyes just become open. And you will become as one of the gods knowing both good and evil." All right. So, think about this now, what eye was going to become open? G-d said, "You will die," so that tell us that somehow something was going to close them.
The eye of his divine life was going to close. And the eye of his grafted nature, his wicked nature was going open. He was going to begin seeing with wicked eyes. Low, filthy eyes, you see? And he would begin hearing with the ears of wickedness and filth.
So, it only means that his divine nature will die and his weak nature would come alive. That's all it means. Okay, let's keep on with it because we have to lead up to the final end of this. What we have here now, a thing happening to the man that's really bringing him down beneath the low creatures, the lowest creatures of the earth. His willpower dies, his hoggish nature takes over because his wit stood up to justify death destruction. Are these separate things? No. All of these are right in everybody. Let's keep moving. In the human history, we can read the effects of two resolutions, decisions or two judgments or two choices, the individual and the divine. The individual choice, it leads to the lack of willpower, the lack of intelligent development and enslavement to the hoggish nature of the human being.
Let's go now and read Genesis chapter three, beginning with verse 14. "And the Lord G-d said unto the serpent, 'Because thou has done this, thou art cursed above all cattle and above every beast of the field. Upon your belly shall you go and dust shall you eat all the days of your life. And I will put enmity between you and the woman.'" The woman here now is the church. Understand that. The woman here now is the church made from the body of knowledge we call the Jesus. Now there's going to be enmity, hatred put between the church and the true Jesus.
Yes, it goes on to say, "And between your seeds and her seed." What does this mean? When every time an innocent person in religion, in Christianity comes up with truth, finds truth, a bit of truth, and tries to show that truth in church, the church is going to fight it. And if one is born from him, if he's killed and his seed grow up and comes up, a seed from the church is going to be there to fight that seed. Is the church that bad Mr? Well let's go on with the subject.
"It can bruise your head and you shall bruise his heels." What does this mean? "It shall bruise your head." The head here is the divine body of knowledge. Meaning that it shall corrupt that divine body of knowledge. And let's go back. We want to get it here, "And you shall bruise his heel." What is the heel here? The heel here are the innocent people. The weakest people. Those that are called dumb people in religion. Uneducated people in religion. How are they going to be bruised now?
They're going to be hurt because they won't have enough knowledge to deal with that body that they're going to give them called Jesus. It's going to mess them up. And that's who it mess up. It mess up the ignorant people in the religion. Jesus just do a thing on them. I'm telling you. And after Adam He said, "Because you have hearkened unto the voice of your wife and have eaten of the tree which I commanded you saying, "You shall not eat of it. Cursed is the ground for your sake. And sorrow shall you eat of it all the days of your life". Now, who is this Adam now that is cursed here?
This Adam here is a one that was dead before. Is that right? He said he went into a deep sleep. So, he was asleep before and the church was made from him. So, who is this now, this body of knowledge now? The church, it comes now into what we call the doctrine or the consciousness of the church in the man after he goes to sleep. Now Jesus is gone. Now we have the doctrine carrying on the church. Is that right? And this doctrine now, also have a church, a conscience that goes along with this. Now that church conscience is burdened with this corruption that has come into Christianity and it can't live now on the real divine truth. It has to live also on the physical thing. The church strength is collection.
How? Organs, trumpets, drums, electric guitars. Physical shouting, and a lot of physical noise. It's cursed now to go back to those physical things for its very life. Let's keep on reading here. The Genesis here has been corrupted, but it's not so corrupted that we still can't bring the truth out of it. "You shall not eat of a thing and you shall not eat of it for all the days of your life." Yes, be cursed all the days of your life. "Thorns also and thistles shall it bring forth to you." This is the earth. "And you shall eat of the herb of the field."
This is all they talking about the herb of the field meaning the weak people, the ignorant people in religion, in the church. The herb is something that is not strong like a tree. A tree is strong, herbs are weak, they bend with the wind. Is that right? It means the ignorant people in religion, the poor and ignorant people in religion. This church body that rules over the church now, it's going to have to feed upon the weak of religion and upon the material things. Let's go from that to Chapter five of Genesis and see what Chapter five has to say here. It says here in Chapter five, "Male and female created He them and blessed them and called their name Adam." So, what do you have here? You have here a clue.
Genesis Chapter five is telling you that Adam is not a single person, a single individual, but a community. It is a community of people. And in this Chapter five, the community is identified. Said that He named them Adam. So, this is not the creation of the genesis of one person and male from which was taken a female and began the creation or the spread of people on earth as physical being. But this is the Genesis of a religious order. Do you understand? What we really have here is the Genesis of the church in this Genesis is here.
All right, let's keep going with it. We want to go to Chronicles now, second Chronicles verse four, chapter 23, verse four. And it says here, "This is the thing that you shall do. A third part of you entering on the Sabbath, of the priest, of the Levites shall be porters of the door." I'm only bringing you this to tie it in with the earliest reference I gave you from Genesis, to tell you that we have clear proof in the Bible for the preacher. And when you go back to him and tell them what I told you, they will say "The Muslims don't know what they're talking about. Say they'll mess you up. You be a good Christian. Don't listen to them. They don't believe in G-d." You tell them to come here and tell us that.
All right, look, this is here. Thank you. Says here in second Chronicles Chapter 23 verse four, "A third part shall be porters at the door." What is this third part? It is the ignorant people, the poor and the ignorant people of the church or of the religion. They shall serve in the menial, in the inferior position because they don't have knowledge to serve in higher positions. Let's go on with it though. "And a third part will be at the king's house, and a third part at the gate of the foundation." Now let's tie this in with the person and then tie it in with the bigger picture. For the individual, it is talking about those that are ignorant in scriptural knowledge in the church and those that are weak in worldly knowledge. They are fitting tools to be used in religion.
So, they give them the lowest job in the religious society. You understand? They can never rise to high positions in the society. Then there's another third. We have three thirds. And don't forget one, two, three. Three parts. The second part here, identifies the intellectuals, the wise outside of the church. These wise outside of the church, they're still in the religious order. They're still in the Christian society. They will be the ones to serve as judges. They will control the knowledge in the land and make judgment.
Then you have another third that will, "Uphold the foundation," so the book says. What is the foundation here? That the wise teachers in the church who understand a higher language in Christianity than you understand. But they can't let you come into the higher language of the Christian religion because if you do, then you won't listen to the baby language that they're giving you on Sunday. You see? So, to hold you, they keep the high language, the adult language for themselves and give you the baby language, you see? And they're the ones that keep the foundation of the church. They keep the church in existence. They keep it established and spunk wrong by denying the poor, the ignorant people, the knowledge that is adult knowledge and giving you baby knowledge.
All right, let's keep moving now. From the individual now we see a design that makes the form or design the basic form of the broad community. From the individual, a design was taken to build a community. The individual, he has willpower, he has intelligence, wit and he has appetite for hungry things. So, the community now is built after this design. There are people that praise the hoggish appetite. We will feed on these people. They won't have sense to manage their wealth. They'll just get it and turn it right back into our hands. They will never be able to defeat us because they will be nothing but big animals and men know how to kill animals.
And that there will be another group of us that we won't let come into the high knowledge of the religious office, but we allow them to get a lot of schooling in government. And we'll give them just a little bit of our knowledge and they will serve us as our government. But we will rule over them all. If you don't think the Pope, the Bishop rule America, you got another thought coming. The government can't do nothing with the Pope. American government can't do anything with the Pope. It can't do anything with the Christian Church collectively because the Christian Church and Catholicism and Protestantism is too strong among the masses of people and they control the masses. If the government wants one thing and the religious leaders want another, the government can't do it over the head of the religious leader. Not until this day and time. But in the past they couldn't do it. How come they couldn't do it? It was because the government was committed to the religious leader. They were committed to the religious leader, and the religious leader would give them in return, votes, political backing. But what happened? The light of true divine wisdom came upon the scene and it began feeding the poor, the porters, those that were given the low jobs. It began feeding them with Divine understanding, waking up the ignorant masses, the donkeys of the religious world, making that donkey speak with man's voice. The government people, over a period of time, recognized that there is another religious voice in the land and now the church has some real competition.
All right. I thank you for your approval with your applause, but the time to finish has gone a long time ago, so let's hold off the applause and you can give them to us when we're finished. But let's save time now. The government people recognize now that there's a religious voice in the land, that is real competition for the church. And they have long ago recognized that the church had grown to be a very weak force of the people. They have been losing the people, because they themselves are lost.
Now the government is not so quick to obey the Pope, not so quick to listen to the voice or the religious leaders in Christianity. "Shut up those Muslims. Don't let them rent your halls. They can't grow if you don't rent them a nice place to have meetings in. They can't grow, meeting in no soap box and in their homes. Don't let them have the big, fine places." The government obeyed them for a long time, but now they don't obey them no more, because they realized that the bright sun of Islam is on the scene for good.
The wise ones in the government, not all of them, but a few wise ones, a few wise ones in the government of these people, they have realized now that the enemy, of not only the masses, but the enemy of government is the false Christian religion. They won't admit this to you. They can't afford to. But they realize it now, and they know that there's a true mission of religion on the scene, and that we can bring the masses out of social death and decay. And bring them back into social life and work, and put them back on the road to producing things for their own wellbeing. The government is no longer strong enough to carry millions of people, as dependents. As unproductive, hanger-ons.
Because it is no longer able and no longer willing to carry the great masses of ignorant people who are unproductive. It is now willing to let the masses go into any safe hands. They used to see their Christian leaders as the only safe hands for the masses. But now they see that that Islam, the Temple of Islam in America, is a safer hand for the masses, than was the Christian church, or the Christian leaders of the church.
We don't want to suck your blood, to empty your pockets, and send you off to go back and get some more for us. We want you to still empty your pockets so that that will go into one pocket. If you're by yourself, you have one small pocket. Many emptying small pockets into one pocket, we all share in one big pocket. We don't need the religious Muslim, believers of Islam, belonging to the Temple of Islam, poor, ragged and out of doors. Ignorant, immoral, sick. Blind, deaf and dumb. We wake up your mind. We turn the wheels of your mind over, and then give you the fuel that you need to keep those wheels turning over. We give you Divine wisdom. And you grow stronger, mentally, morally and physically. You become a total person.
You're not satisfied to be one third. You have to have the other three parts in you. Is that right? You're not satisfied just to be all taken over by holy emotionalism. You like to feel good, all right. But a Muslim will just not be satisfied with just feeling good in religion. He has to be able to believe and see himself as one not only feeling good, but one thinking good.
He has to believe that he is able to reason rightly. Is that right? He takes pride in that other third. The body of knowledge. The intelligence. The intellectual part of being. And he's not satisfied to remain on any one level, no matter how wise he get in Islam. He still want to climb up a little higher. Is that right? Then he also has another third that rules over the other two thirds. That's his divine willpower.
He's not satisfied to neglect it either. He fasts during the month of Ramadan so that his willpower will grow stronger. He tests his will with the forces of the flesh. The flesh says, "Give me some food. I'm hungry and hurting. Give me some water and some juice and some milk. I'm hungry and hurting, I'm thirsty." During the fast month, the willpower said, "No, you can't have it until sundown."
And 30 days in that month of training against the power of the flesh, the willpower come out strong enough to go for another 11 months, without falling victim to the powers of the flesh. So, we don't deny any of them. We don't deny any of our basic functions that work together in the total being. We cultivate them all. All Praises due to Allah.
What has happened now in the world to those original concepts and ideas that we have just described to you in the individual make up that are also in the personal make up of the world? They have fallen down to terms like Church, government and industry.
You wouldn't believe that this Trinitarian Doctrine, the three-in-one, had really grown from Genesis from willpower, intellect, and desire, to come into the form that we see in the world today. Religion, government, and industry. The bible shows us that growth, the development of the religious community from dust to industry. Could we prove this? Oh yes. In the beginning, in Genesis, the land begins from dust. In Revelation of the bible, the land has become a city. I hope a wise preacher is here who will be able to understand what I'm saying.
And go back and teach the religion as it should be taught. In the New Testament, in the early parts of the New Testament, Jesus is called a body, a person. A manifestation of G-d in the flesh, is that right? This is the religious community. It is a manifestation of Divine will in material form. The Divine dwells in the people. Jesus said, "The Kingdom is within you."
Is that right? All right, let's go on now. Jesus said, "I in you and you in me. I in my father. My father in me." So, he made these all in one, didn't he? This is the community, not one person. Why does he refer to himself as one in three? Because he represented that third, the ministry. The religious head. Who was the father there he was talking about? What had produced him? It was the physical world that produced him, the physical father. Just as we think of a Creator, producing us physically, or creating us physically. Father here is the original body of knowledge that exists in holy people, the divine people that gave birth to Jesus.
"Oh, this man is saying that some worldly, some people of the world taught Jesus?" Yes I am. The Bible saying he was taught as a child. He was taught. And it doesn't say that only G-d taught him. Jesus went to school. "Oh, I don't believe that." I went to school. Master Fard Muhammad went to school. You go to school and you learn so much, then G-d blesses you with Divine interpretation and you become master of the school that you went to.
In Genesis we have, in Revelation ... I mean, in the New Testament also, we have a father manifesting a son, which is Jesus. The father is the religious body of knowledge, that divine mind, in the form of supreme religious teachings or supreme wisdom, that formed Jesus from early childhood. And after he became created or made from that body of knowledge, which is called G-d, because it is of G-d, but it is of G-d in the sense of the word of G-d. And after he was formed of that G-d, the Creator, that is the word, the divine word of scripture. Then he himself became a self-manifestation of that divine word or that divine body of knowledge. Do you understand?
But he had to go to school. He had to go to people to get that knowledge. He didn't go to books to get it. He went to people to get it. The Holy Qur'an said that if there had been a community of angels on earth, G-d would've sent an angel to them as a Prophet. But since there was not a community of angels on earth, there was a community of men and women on earth, so G-d sent to them a man as a Prophet. It makes sense. Angels know angels. Men know men. All right, let's go on and see if we can sum this up.
Looking at Genesis now, to the curses that we have in Genesis, in the bible. Let's see now, can we recognize those curses, right now, in today in our world. Those curses grew from small curses to big curses. From small sins to big sins. From small consequences to big consequences. We have dust now being brought up into industry, is that right? That dust, or ground that was turned, now we can see the curse in industry. Industry has polluted our drinking water. And industry has polluted our breathing air, our air. Is that right?
So, we see this curse. All right, let's go to the other curse now. It says that also, the women would be cursed. The women there represent the church. The church is not brick now. The church are people. Without the people you don't have a church. The word church only means congregation. Here now, the religious people are cursed too. The flesh and blood living people. Why? How do we see that curse today? We see that curse in their lack or absence of willpower. Their weakness for material things. They can't separate themselves from hog eating. They can't separate themselves from drinking whiskey. From eating three meals a day. And wearing super fly clothes.
They're putting all their effort out to get a new suit. A new dress. A new pair of shoes or a hat or something. So, they are cursed with the hoggish appetite that was condemned in Genesis. This hoggish appetite keeps them at the bottom of the economic scale. Other people are working too, just like you are. And some of them don't have as high-paying jobs as you have. But they manage to, I'm talking about other so-called ethnic groups. They manage to do more with their income than you're able to do with your income. With $100 a week, they pretty soon they got a bank account. Pretty soon they got a small business. And soon, later, they're out of the labor field, they are the owner of a business. They are a proprietor.
But you getting $200 a week. 100 more than that man from the other ethnic group. You can never get nowhere. Every week you have to buy something or you have to let a bill go unpaid. Why? Because the other ethnic group, they don't have the burden of your terrible Christian understanding. They're not all emotional. They have a living intelligence in their body that rules over their emotionalism, rules over their material dreams, and deny the flesh some of the things that it's asking for, in hopes of making the whole body more secure tomorrow. We haven't been trained to secure ourselves for the future. Many of us come into thousands of dollars. And hurry up and spend them if we think we're getting ready to die.
We don't have the sense of an ant. Who will store up something for his babies that's coming tomorrow. We got children growing up behind us, but we rush to spend everything we got. I'm not saying this is all of you. Some of you have gotten wise here in these late years. And I don't mean to say that all of us have always been fools like that. But on the whole, we have been fools like that. And that's why we haven't had nothing until today. You don't have to make a whole lot of money to get economically strong. If you took your money and used it wisely, pretty soon you'll get out of the labor field, and come into management and business field, as a business owner. wait for this long to learn how to do that.
Some of you had to become a part of the Nation of Islam to learn how to do that. Because this world, the world of business has grown to be a collective operation. We can survive and G-d has formed us to survive. He has shown us where the strength is in the old world, and where the weaknesses are in the old world, and has given us the love for each other to come and join together as one family. Even more so, as one body. With one head. And all of us are nothing but members in that body. And we work together to feed that body. To clothe and shelter that body. And we are successful, because we are doing what Almighty G-d has designed for us to do, and He has now bought it about.
Brothers and sisters, we will now bring our talk to a close. But we don't want to bring it to a close before making it very clear to you what this mission is all about. We are here to Remake the World. Not just the world of Temples, but the world of America. And the whole world outside of America, we are here to remake it. We know the failure in the world, we know just how far the world has failed, and we know just where to charge the failure too. Not only here in America, but everywhere in the world we know where it is.
We have the answer. The mission of the Nation of Islam is to restore the total man. The total life. The total community. Pollution of land, air, and sea is a problem for this world, but it doesn't discourage us. We are not going to give up the city and go to some artificial Garden of Eden, to eat wild berries, wear sneakers and long beards and go without baths. We haven't given up on civilization. We started it, and we are going to give it birth again and keep it going.
The Divine may appoint world saviors that we call Messengers and Prophets. They made the world, and those that went astray from their guidance remade it in an unnatural and in an unhealthy way. And because of that, we suffer. The human community materially speaking, grows from Adam's gut, to a Divine community called in the Revelation New Jerusalem. New Jerusalem is a description of a city. Of community with all that is necessary for our whole world society. It is a city government coming down from the sky. What does that mean? It mean that it will come from high principles, from high moral thinking. It will come from Divine minds, down to the low minds of the ignorant and the poor who were robbed by those who used to be in the sky, pretending to be the heaven of G-d. That's the false religious people.
This community is a progression from dust to industry. We are not here to bring together a community of spirits. Spirit's are only one third of the human form. We are here to bring together a community of total people. We are building schools, Universities of Islam. Not only that, we are setting the patterns for education, right there in the grooming of that University of Islam. You'll see it pretty soon. We are building industry, economy. We began from the dust. But we know how to do it. We know the evolution of the growth of the government. We know its three major stages, we can breathe into this movement, into this great community of people you call the Nation of Islam, we know how to breath into this body the breath of Divine truth and bring it from dust to industry.
You don't have to look for New Jerusalem anymore to come down from the sky. New Jerusalem is here. Look around you, this is New Jerusalem. The term city is the concept and corroborating all the basic and vital functions of a society. Family life. Education and religion. Religion, which should be the lifeblood of the total society. But it has grown so weak over the period of the development of the church. I could go back even to the synagogue and the church. It has grown so weak over the growth of the synagogue and the church, that it has now become less than a third in the vital workings of the social world we call the human family.
It is nothing now but really a sham. And an escape from the real work of living that G-d Almighty cut out for people. When real living gets too hard for us, we run into a false world we call Christianity that's nothing but a whole lot of false emotionalism. We go there and we satisfy ourselves by doing nothing but making noise. Come back out Monday morning and start life all over again. That's a false relief. Muslims don't run away from the job of life. When we come to the Temple, we are coming here to reorganize. To tighten up our band. To get permanent hand that grips on the harness. We going to ride the horse of life a little faster after we leave the Temple of Islam.
The world dies because we lose sight of the real idea, the natural divine idea, of the true concept of vital and natural functions in the human make up. You have to learn what is the true and natural basic function in your human form. What things are operating to make you operate well? Then design your world after that design, because the Creator Himself made this. The wise man is a man who has more than one vision. Fools can only look out. Wise people can look in too.
The world dies because we lose sight of the true concept and true ideas of the vital and natural functions in life, which work to produce the basic institutions of home life. School and worship. Worship is not a whole thing for us. Worship is something that we incorporate into our whole life. We go to a place of worship, not that we are going out of the world into worship, we worship G-d all the time. When we get up in the morning, after we are laid off from one job and go look for another, we're worshiping G-d.
Because G-d commanded us to not just sit inert as a stone or as a mineral. He gave us life, He commanded that we move. So, we're not going to sit at home and be a mineral of the earth. And we're not going to sit at home and be a plant, just rooted in one's spot. No, we're going to spread out, because the human being, he's given the freedom to get out of the soil that he's planted in. He stays in one place and builds it up, then he gets out and builds up somewhere else. Is that right?
Muslims know that Allah has not ordained that we be minerals and plants. But we are men with freedoms to move and with a broader field of movement than any of the other created things. In fact, our field of movement is so broad that we call the universe, our home. And everything in it, our tools for our service. That's right. We have to Remake the World, brother and sister. And if the job is not yours and mine, then tell me somebody that's worthy to take this job up. Nobody knows to what extent that the world has been messed up, better than you and me. Because no other people have been messed up in it more than you and me have been messed up.
If it was left to the Asian people, they could do the job as far as Asian problems and understanding of those problems would permit them to go. And if Africa was allowed to do it, they could go as far as African problems, and as far as African knowledge of the cause of those problems would allow them to go. But nobody, brother, have as many problems as you and I have had. Nobody, brother, understands what human suffering is all about like you and me know it. I'm telling you the truth, believe it or not. Nobody on this earth has been as emptied of everything that naturally could be a part of them, as you and me have been emptied. Nobody else. So how can somebody outside of us do a job of Remaking the World, as well as we could do it, when they don't even know how much it has been unmade, like we know it?
The Nation of Islam will come into our work, this work, for industry, with Divine knowledge of the proper use of the material graces. We won't abuse these things. We won't misuse these things. We have the right knowledge of how they have to be used. We are balanced people. We have been formed by G-d, as the Holy Qur'an states, and have been formed in due proportions. We are not too heavy on one side and too light on the other. Nor do we have our Trinitarian make up well balanced brothers and sisters.
With the knowledge of the whole world's bad judgment and the use of these material things, we will work for progress in all human fields. And work against spiritualism, and work against those dispositions and attitudes that work to corrupt the thinking and the minds of the people, which bring about further corruption of the whole society and end up even in the corruption of the physical environment. See, when you sever the growth of the grafted mind, the grafted mentality, you find it growing. And as it grows, it first corrupts the moral life of the people.
Then later you find that the intelligence, the mind, the intellectual body of matter, it becomes corrupt. And after it becomes corrupt and it loses its power, then lastly you hear the news. You find it in the books, the ad talk, the naked thoughts. Is that right? But look how it started? It started with the individual. It started with a community of people who were supposed to be responsible for the wider community. They were supposed to be responsible to All Mighty G-d, the Creator, to lead in life. Is that right? They gave us Christianity and they thought of democracy and they promised us the blessings of Christianity and democracy. But what have they left us with? Nothing.
The church fell. The institutions of learning fell. Now, they want to reorder the institutions of learning. Church people want to translate Bible verses again. They want to even let hippies help them, translate the Bible. They're in bad shape. The material heaven that democracy promised turned out to be nothing but a warning that we are moving closer and closer to our doom. If we don't reorder our world, we're going to kill humanity with industrial corruption, pollution. Is that right? This is what they say. All right. We're going to Remake this World for them, because we know where to go to start the remaking. We don't go to his polluted environment. We don't go to his weak church. We don't go to his weak school system. We go to the individual, from whom the design for the whole society from the very beginning, was taken.
We go back to the individual and we start from a unit and add two to it, add three to it, and go up to nine, and 10, and start adding zeros and zeros. And pretty soon, we are at something bigger than his. And we'll be on top of it all. We don't have to hide anything. He's too far behind in Divine understanding to catch up. We can telegraph where we're going and he still can't catch up. All he can do is watch us and wait for our movement to signal to him what he should do. With the knowledge of whole world's bad judgment and the use of the material graces, we will work for progress in all human fields. All Praises be to Allah.
The growth or the evolution of Prophethood from Adam to Muhammad is a movement from the raw, unborn man to the sophisticated, highly educated, civilized, divine man. He comes from Adam to Muhammad. He comes from dust, from primitive society, learning how to clean his vessel, his cooking utensils, how to wear clean clothes, how to look after his physical health. He comes from that to a whole human being, has grown now in all of the dimensions of this total man that G-d was creating. And Muhammad now stands up on the ground on the Earth as the crown of creation. And the whole world has to acknowledge that Muhammad is the Crown of Creation. That there is nothing in the created world more royal or more regal than Muhammad. He is the ruler. He is the leader for the whole world. For G-d said, in the beginning, "I'm going to make a ruler in the Earth." He didn't say he made his man to live off of other people. He said, "I'm going to make a ruler of Man." Is that right?
Says, "When I have breathed into him of My spirit," and I'm talking about G-d's man now, not the one that conquered G-d's man and made a grafted man, I'm talking about G-d's own man, He said, "I'm going to make a man from the dust of the Earth, from the lowest of the people. And when I have breathed into him of My spirit, meaning of My divine mind, when I have put it into his head, the scientists of the world, the wise, the stiff necked and proud who think they know it all and have been casting wits against His revealed knowledge, they all must drop their books and bow down to His man. All Praises be to Allah. Thank you. All Praises be to Allah. And of course to the Holy Qur'an. And of course to the words of the Holy Qur'an. When the wise scientist was ordered to submit to G-d's man that He Himself had made wise with His own mind, one among them said, "I refuse. I won't bow down to this that you have made from the black mud fashioned into shape. today." And why he won't submit to bow? He said, "Because you made me of fire." The Holy Qur'an says, "And the beings of fire, the Jinns, we made before."
That is, before we made the man to be the Crown of the Creation, The scientists think they have made themselves. We had already made the scientists of the world.
But they are blind children using our tools. The Jinn boasts that, "You made me before you made him. We were before Muhammad. You're telling us to submit to him? They say that they came up the hard way. We got our knowledge by our own efforts. We're not men of the spirit. We're not divine men. We're men of knowledge. We don't submit to no religious teacher or leader to tell us what to do." Fire means a body of knowledge that is of the world. Men like to look at it. You don't see there's a nature. You look at fire. They like to be near it because it gives them warmth. They use it to cook their food and to do things for them. And also, they use it to light their work so they can see. We don't call these electric bulbs fire, but they're fire too. If you don't believe it, go put your hand on one of them. You see how hot it is. So, the light of the world is actual fire.
The scientists now, they have built their body of knowledge and they say, "Our knowledge is the light of the world. And we had it before this Muhammad came on the scene. We're not made of this religious thing; we're made of knowledge. How you're going to tell us to submit to a religious man? He preach well. He might be sincere. But he doesn't have that much sense. We're scientists." G-d say, "Nevertheless, I know something you don't know." He say, "I know that that you know not." Is that right? So then, He tells His man that He has made and breathed His mind into his head, He tells him, he says, "Tell them their names. They don't even know their own names, so tell this foul, rebellious scientist his name."
That means identify him, so he can see himself. You have My wisdom, now direct it to this rebellious scientist and tell him how he came into being and tell him what he has done to the world. Shine your light into his light and put out his light with the bright light of Divine. Destroy them with love. All Praises be to Allah. So, brothers and sisters, you're living in the time of the end of the old world and the making of the new world. You are right now in the community of New Jerusalem. You Muslims are now in the body of Christ. You are the second Christ. You are the Christ that was to come in the end, and you have appeared out of the clouds of the darkness of this world. And you have manifested as a bright light to light the whole world, north, east, west and south. And you have not been born, brothers and sisters, and returned to your glory after crucifixion and death just to sit around here and be a light to America.
No. You're going to rise up so high that they'll see your light all around the Earth, believe it or not. We have purposely carried this subject in the manner of a conversation or a private home sitting, where we just exchange knowledge and experiences. We've done it that way purposely so that you will leave here with more knowledge and more understanding and so that you will finish it feeling closer to the members of your body, in this one whole body, the Body of the New Christ. Brothers and sisters, go tell the church people, tell them the Christ that they've been looking for to come out of the clouds has already come down. Tell them, in the words of their Bible, it is not a flesh and blood body, it's a city, it's a community, a whole community we call the Nation of Islam, having many flesh members and its one body. Tell them that they will not see any other Christ coming, that this is the Christ. And if they don't believe it, come to the head and find out.
They have been told in the church, and it has come down by tradition from generation to generation, that Jesus, when he comes, he will judge the world, and he will justify those who have been mistreated and abused in the world. That's our job. That's what we're doing. We are that Christ. You've also been told that when Jesus comes that his light will be so bright, the coming will be so bright, that all who have eyes will see him. There have been no people, so spiritually, morally, intellectually, blind, and dark that is void of knowledge as you and I have been. Our coming into light is rarely noticed by people all over the world, because they have known us to be a spiritually, intellectually, and morally dark community. But now, Allah's light has come into us. He has manifested presence in us. And they see our light, and our light is noticed by everybody all over the world.
And everybody that sees this change that has come of us, they bear witness. They say, "Yes, we must admit, they are a new people. We must admit that they have something special." Already we have words coming to us from outside, telling us that they recognize that we are the ones to redeem and liberate the world. Everybody that comes here and examines what we have here will come to the same conclusion if they have any sense at all. So, brothers and sisters, don't look for Christ anymore. Christ is here. Oh, but do you have the power that Christ had? Can you turn water into wine? Yes. While you have been sitting here, I just turned about... Well, I'll say a Lake Michigan of water into wine. Can you give sight to the blind? Oh, yes, faster and better than we did 2,000 years ago.
2,000 years ago, people received sight and lost it. Today we give sight and it stays there forever. Oh, but what about healing the lame? Can you make crippled people walk straight without crutches? Oh, yes indeed. That's just the daily occupation with us. Every day, we're taking people off of crutches and making them walk without limp. Do you see any Muslims walking down a street like this? Muslims walk like this. He has been duly proportioned and he's in right mind. All Praises be to Allah. "Well, Mr. Wallace Mohammed, can you take lepers and cure lepers?" That's another daily occupation with us. We have cured more lepers today than all the Prophets cured in the whole history of Prophets. I can prove what I'm saying.
We have Prophets in the Old Testament, like Elijah, Peace be upon him, curing the lepers. Then we have Jesus and people of the New Testament curing the lepers. You don't know what lepers mean. Men who have leprosy have white marks on their skin. And white, in the scriptural language means that which appears to be pure. And the Christian church and the whole religious world, although the Christian church is really the house of the real lepers. They have leprosy. They have white marks that appear to be purity, but it's a disease. When we meet them and talk to them, we take away those disease spots that appears to be purity and is not purity, and we bring health back to the leper and remove leprosy from the lepers. "Oh, I don't believe that it only meant that. I believe that it means just what it says in the Bible."
Do you hope that Jesus will come back and fall out of the sky above, through that sky up there? In case you don't know what's up there, I better tell you a little bit. The heat is down here. After you go a few miles up there it gets so cold up there you can freeze fire almost. And he's going to drop down through that ice-cold region up there with a body that has been suffering wounds for 2,000 years, one's still bleeding, and he's going to come down here on the Earth and slay all men? That same compassionate, savior that preached love, penitence, and mercy for sinners, he's going to come back now, he's gone crazy since the last 2,000 years, he's crazy mad, he don't have any mercy on sinners anymore, he's coming here to kill sinners. He's going to kill so many sinners that his garments are going to become just drenched with blood.
This is the physical picture that you have in this Bible about the return of Jesus. So, I'm just telling you so you can think it over before leaving here and see if that's really what you expected. Now we want to ask a question. If G-d didn't know what He was doing in the first place, why didn't He just let bad matters remain bad matters instead of making it worse? I'll explain what I'm talking about. According to the Bible, the world came under sin after G-d had set it straight. Then, He destroyed the world with a flood of water and, again, He made another effort. Now, that was already one mistake. He was trying to make it right, that after making it He saw that it was wrong. So, He said, "I'm going to destroy My works that I have made." So, He destroyed it, then came back a second time.
And this time, He Himself came down, G-d in the flesh, and let people kill Him on a cross. This time, He's called the Son, Jesus. Let the people kill Him on the cross to save their sins, save them from their sins. He goes back up into heaven and watches them get sinful all over again, and gets mad again, comes rushing down for a last and final fight with His creation. Now, I'm not trying to insult anybody or to offend your religion. We're doing no more than what we have to do, and that's saying the truth plain and clear. Hold up. Thank you. All right. Here He comes now to kill off the people. He's no more loving and merciful. He just sheds blood and seems like He likes to shed it. The book says G-d must just get all drenched in the blood. Where did He get the Jesus from now that He crucified, or that He allowed to be crucified? This flesh and blood body came from Earth.
It was the son of Mary, the Blessed Mary, according to the scripture, and Mary's body was flesh and blood of the Earth. And Mary had a flesh and blood son, so Jesus's body was of flesh and blood. It was of our community. If G-d is to come down here now and take one of us and then get into one of us and capture one of us and then go back to heaven with our body from our world and then bring it again back down here to torture the people. If He was going to torture and sacrifice something, how come He didn't sacrifice something from above? Why He had to come down here and get some flesh from our community and torture it like that? When He comes back, we should say, "G-d, we've been waiting on you. We heard you were coming back do us up. Well first, we got a judgment to pronounce on you."
We have to tell Him that it was one of our women that You had made to bear a son for nine months, to carry your son for nine months and then raise it, and it was our flesh that You tortured on the cross, now here you're coming back to torture us some more for the sins that You Yourself made. "Oh, G-d didn't make these sins." Is that true? If you believe that, then why did G-d come to undo the sin? "We made these sins." Well, we can undo them. I agree with you. G-d didn't make the sin. We made the sin. And we can undo the sin. So, G-d don't have to come in no spooky form to undo our undoing. All we have to do is wake up to our wrong doing. And we will undo it ourselves.
Yes, but He has to do this through the Immaculate Conception. Well, you go home and think over that. And if you don't come to our conclusion, maybe next time we see you, we can make you understand how ridiculous that is. You don't believe in the Immaculate Conception? Oh, yes I do. I, myself am, I am an Immaculate Conception.
Man, this man is crazy. No, you just don't know the language that you use. And after me explaining it to you, you will know that I'm not crazy. The world has just been in darkness. I can truthfully say to you that my physical father was not my father. That I never had a physical father. "Oh, Mister, now you know you a liar." You don't know the I that I'm talking about. You were just looking at this.
The I that I'm talking about that was born without flesh is that part of me that speaks the will of Almighty G-d. No physical thing can give birth to that. Nothing of the physical creation can birth that in anybody. I believe in the Divine Creator Himself who is not creating, but Creator. Only He Himself can bring about that creation or that birth in a person. Then you may say, "Well, who is your mother? Jesus had a mother."
Yes, and I do too. My mother is Nation of Islam. The Nation of Islam gave me food, clothes and shelter. Took care of me and protected me until I grew up to be a man. And I was born out of the womb of the mind that was, at that time, the mind of the Nation of Islam. But out of that womb, I grew up to be a man. To become the head of that womb, by that Nation of Islam that I, myself, was born out of. And my father, he would say, "Well, who is your father?"
Figuratively speaking, or speaking in the language of the New Testament, my father's G-d. Well, who are you? I am the manifestation of G-d.
Thank you, thank you. Thank you.
You might be silly enough to say, "But I don't believe in G-d. I believe I can go up there and kill you." You also believe that they killed Jesus and you still say he's G-d. All Praise is due to Allah.
Well, our brothers and sisters who have not yet came in to this body, the body of Christ of the Lost-Found Nation of Islam in America. Don't keep fighting with your own thoughts. Rejecting the birthright of your own understanding. Throwing out good suggestions from your own intelligence and from your own conscience. Don't keep up that foolish struggle in yourself. Accept Islam. The natural way of life for you and me.
And be prepared to do anything that you are asked to do. Don't think that this is some new thing that we are calling you to. A little price is put on little things. And a big price on big things. The Nation of Islam is a big thing. So don't come here expecting to pay a small price for the Nation of Islam that will be yours once you just come into the body.
If you are asked to do it, 100%, or 25% of your earnings. Do it. Do it and go broke. If you believe in Allah, you won't go broke.
If you are asked to come out and sell Muhammad Speaks newspapers. Don't say, "I don't like the idea of being a paperboy." Be a paper man. The world will still respect you. And Allah will be with you. And you will gain much more by traveling that route than by traveling your own individual selfish route. I'm not saying that you should come here and just throw everything you've got into one collection for the Nation of Islam. And leave your children at home crying for food. Or put out of doors. I'm not saying that. But I'm saying that we have leadership in the Nation of Islam that's intelligent enough to recognize your particular fate. And if you tell us that you have children and that you have bills to meet, we will look at your answer and your problem. And we will give you the right answer.
We won't be like the people in the New Testament, that because they won't give everything, a curse fell upon them. Killed them dead. That's in Acts, I believe it is. The foundation under their feet started shaking and everybody was killed. Because he wouldn't give up all that he had. He wouldn't sell his land and give it to the church. We're not like that. But we don't expect you to come here and give less here than you gave out there.
This is more important to you and more valuable to you than the world that you been giving your all too. But when you come here and don't give us less. If you do, you expose yourself as a hypocrite in our midst. You have less to give us than you had to give to the church. "Oh, I'm not going to give them my money." Your money? What money is your money? But hearing somebody talking like that, they are not here. They don't belong here.
Over here, we don't have no "my money". It's Allah's money. It's the Nation of Islam's money. And enough money for all of us, our shareholders, our owners. Is that right? We don't you to be put out of doors, we don't want your children to suffer. But we want you to be fair and honest. If you're a hypocrite, don't come here. Pretty soon, this Nation is going to grow to become so strong that all of its members are going to be wealthy.
Nobody in the Nation will be poor. "Oh mister, that's just talk. anybody can say things like that." We have our number of well off people constantly growing. There was a time when there was no person well off among us. Now, we have many among us who are well off. And the numbers are constantly growing. Over here, you learn how to become world producers. In fact, the demand on the Nation of Islam for technicians, highly skilled people. Doctors in the field of education, the demand for engineers. It's so great, that we have wait until they come in, until we produce them within here.
That's how great the demand is. We are going to do the job but we just don't have enough workers. As Christ said in the Bible "The harvest is ripe, but the workers are few." The opportunity is not outside the Nation of Islam. The opportunity is here. That's world out there brother has dried up. Everything you see live on TV today is foolishness. The strength of this world has dried up.
When their leaders speak, they have nothing positive to say at all. Problems and they have no solution. The economy is just at a standstill. Employment is bad, and then they promise prosperity this week and next week, we don't hear any more of the promise. Let them just stay as they are. But the Nation of Islam is growing financially. The number in our employment are growing daily.
This is not a bankrupt community. This is a new thing, brother and sister. And if you have any sense about the business world, if you know anything about economics, you know that there is hope in new things. The wise people in the business world strive at looking for new things developing in the field of economics. And they latch on to the new thing because it has promise. If you want to invest your money, your energies in something, invest in here.
This is yours. And by all that reasoning, this is the proper and the most profitable place to make an investment. This nothing but plain truth we are telling you. We got stretches of land. Heavy machinery moving over it. Preparing the ground. And working the crop. Harvesting. Bringing it to the market. Shipping, trucking, ships coming in from out of the country. Bringing thousands and thousands of pounds of seafood for our community.
And at the same time, we got the business operations every month kicking into new gear. Rearranging and restructuring the office of business to accommodate another new and heavy volume of business work. We have people coming from across the earth who are getting the business of import and export, visiting us and looking in on us. I remember the time, and it was nothing but a few years ago, brothers and sister. And I know it's getting late, but this is better than anything we have to do.
I remember just a few years ago, when we would have thought it was really something to have a white man who does as much shipping as we do come into our community, "There goes Mr. so and so, there goes Mr so and so."
Just to hear that the millionaire so and so was on a particular street today. That would be the talk of the town for a week or so. Now here you have that kind of power right in yourself. And many of you don't understand the great power, the great wealth that you have. We can get up in the air and don't have to wait for Transworld. Or United Airline or any other airline. We get in our own jet and take off when we get ready. And land when we get ready.
And we have our own brother as the pilot. Young man born and raised in the Nation of Islam. Never been anywhere else. He flew up here to Philadelphia from Chicago. And we jet all the way too. A jet pilot. He's a Captain, qualified and graduated. And was given the honor of Captain.
Right now, there's a problem in America of neglecting the aged. Many nursing homes have been exposed to be nothing but torture houses for the old people. We have a million and a half dollars already put up that we are not going to touch until a nursing home goes up in Chicago for the aged. That's not all, brothers and sisters. We have a plan to build factories. And we're going to build factories. We have a plan to build a skyscraper. "Well, what do you want with a skyscraper?"
We want a monument as a testimony to the presence of the great Master, WF Muhammed and Elijah Muhammed among us. One day, we are going to go up in our skyscraper. And we're going to sit in the top and have lunch or dinner. And look over the tops of the other houses in the city. you're not going to do that. Oh yes, we are going to do that. They once told the Honorable Elijah Muhammad, "No you can't". And he said "Yes, I can." And he did it. And that which he built is a success now. And what we saying is going to happen because we going to make it a reality. We not depending on anybody other than Almighty G-d to bring it forth. "You need the help of people in the community to do it. You can't do it without their help." That's true. But their help is not in their own hands. Allah has the power to make them help against their will.
It says here in the Holy Qur'an that when Allah created the heavens and the earth, says regarding His desire to bring about the Creation. To bring into form communities on the earth. He said, "Come willingly or come hatingly." If we see you up there, and we are down here, that's a word to you today letting you know that the same power has decreed that this work must be done. That this new world that I'm going bring to about, it must come.
And I say, "Come into being willingly or come hatingly." You won't hurt nobody but yourself. So, my brother and sister, we have tried your patience today. And most of you are still here. So, we have used a tool here today to weed out the weak ones. Don't think that everyone who's gone is weak. Some t that left are as strong as you are. And they will be back. But there were some that wasn't desirable here. We wore out their patience and sent them out the door.
The rest of you here, we will ask you to do what you know is right to do. And that is don't leave this auditorium as anything other than a member in this Body- Christ, the Nation of Islam.
At this time, I would like to show you the pilot, our jet pilot, Captain Sultan Muhammad. Where is he?
All Praise be to Allah.
They say he was the youngest. He got his license and captain's recognition at the youngest age recorded. When you come into Islam and as you begin to understand our new language, and learn to live this life, what could happen to you is truly miraculous. And some of you might think it's spooky but it's nothing spooky about it.
Even your brain works better. If you've been slowing and dumb, just stay around here. And you'll get sharper. There's no such thing as a dead thing that G-d can't give life to. I don't care what it is. If He wants to give it life, He can give life to it. So, brothers and sisters, I would like to, at this time, I would like to thank the Minister Jeremiah Muslim Shabazz for his hard work. Fearless work. Dedicated. Unretiring man. Comes out every day looking fresh. And ready. Why? Because he has all the knowledge? No. Because he has enough knowledge to let him know that there is no room for doubt. Everything is guaranteed.
All you have to do is get with it. And because of his strong faith, he has been able to do in Philadelphia what no other religious community or religious church or anything else has been able to do. With your help, he has been able to bring thousands together in Philadelphia. Turn them away from their old life of ignorance and self-destruction. And bring them together to work, acknowledge, to raise the knowledge and level of their community. And for help. And for money, good homes and friendship. In all decent walks of life. Where can you find, in Philadelphia, a man that can call together as many people as he can and call together from that segment of the community, that they have given up hope on. They turned their backs on them. The very ones that they failed with, he has them coming together. Doing work that their successful ones can't do. He has taken the failures by the power of Allah, and the strength of Allah in them. He has taken them now and he has brought them together and has shamed the work of those that call themselves successful ones.
And calls you failures. Now, the failures outshine the successful ones. They do more for the community than the successful ones did. And they have the successful ones coming to them now. You failures have to help us out. This man is more valuable in Philadelphia than the Bishop, than all the Preachers in Philadelphia combined.
If there was a choice between him and the Bishop. and all the Preachers in Philadelphia, Allah will sacrifice them to death right away to save one toe of his foot.
Why? Because they were dead. They are hanging on to a dead world. Their body is a dead body. Why would G-d sacrifice life for death. I don't know if you can hear me or not. Mr. Pope, in the Vatican, all your bishops, Christian churches, all denominations and all your leaders. Your Christ is here. And if you don't recognize him, your heart will soon be left desolate. Not only desolate, but it will vanish from off the face of the earth.
The time of church darkness, ritual darkness is coming to an end. This is the day of Scriptural light. And if they continue to try to uphold darkness, they are going to be wiped from the face of the earth. Not with physical weapons. But with the bright light of truth. It is a light that acts as a fire. And burns up falsehood. Peace be unto you and the greetings of all the Prophets from Abraham to Muhammed. As Salaam Alaikum.


