12/17/1976
IWDM Study Library
The Fire of Truth (A Marvelous Creation)

By Imam W. Deen Mohammed
A trend seen by Almighty G-d and He revealed this trend to the prophets. It was the growing in the hearts and the minds of the people of falsehood and hunger the things of the flesh. And a kind of hypocritical commitment to religion. For the Holy Quran says here in this verse, “for that mankind did not believe with assurance in our signs.” That there were many people in the religion who are not really in the religion. But their hearts and their minds were in something else. Things that will only serve them and that their allegiance was not a true allegiance.
They were not really firmly grounded in faith. And they took the signs and the promises of Almighty G-d lightly. They didn't seriously believe in those signs and wonders. But G-d revealed it to His prophet that there is coming a time. Don't set yourself over the condition of these people. You know, the man who is sincere and really totally committed to serve G-d and the good cause in society. It pains his heart and he suffer a lot because he is so often disappointed.
He struggled, and he gives of himself, he sacrificed himself, he prayed to G-d and seek G-d all the night long. Sometimes staying up the whole night. He comes out in the morning and he began to work really hard to try to put together the divine message, in common language, in simple terms for the people. A truth that is the greatest truth in existence. A greater truth than the truth of higher mathematics. A greater truth than the truth of complicated chemical and physical terms and concepts. The truth that is the ultimate truth, the absolute truth, the truth upon which all other truth is supported.
The truth that evolve or manifest all other truth. Now he has to take that perfect truth, that ultimate truth, that truth from which all other truth is based and then explain it in simple terms for people who are not educated. For people who perhaps never finished high school, many never finished grade school. So, he has to struggle with concept and terminologies, with ideas. Struggle with concepts and ideas and terminologies that the people are not used to hearing, that they have never heard before. Because they never been taught these things. He has to struggle with this and present it in a package that their simple minds can grasp.
And after struggling all night long and all day long and then struggling before then, to get them to see that the reality is everywhere. The truth is everywhere, that you are a force for truth. That you are yourself an embodiment of truth. That you don't have to look outside of yourself. If you would just began to radiate from without the things that you find within yourself.
If you would stop smothering your own truth and let it come out, you'll see the light. And he struggles and he struggles with the people. And many of them come around and look like little plants coming out of the ground and flowers, looks like beautiful flowers. And they look like the creation have been made. Here is G-d's creation, a miracle has been performed. He walks away and come back the next day and he finds those flowers are the purple dead-looking flowers of poison. And they are poisoning the garden, poisoning the atmosphere. Vines that are weed-like, struggling against the growth of the healthy things. Choking out the wheat as the Bible says. The tear chocking out the wheat, killing the food of the congregation. Is that right?
Yes, so he looked at that and his heart is crushed. But G-d always come back to the good man. And let him know that you don't have to quit over these useless trashy people.
They can't avoid what's coming after them. Leave them alone, they are on the right path, to get what they are rightly due.
I’ve lived on this earth not for many, many, years but I am over 40 now. And I have to thank you for a nice celebration here in my honor. And I received the beautiful scroll and I really appreciate it. I feel as though I had a big birthday celebration and I really thank you for that. And I'm sure that those who have knowledge weren't celebrating my birthday, they were celebrating the birth of truth among them and that's the real celebration.
We don't fret and despair, grieve ourselves to death, over the resistance that is put up by those false natured, false minded people. Because Allah has shown us through the prophets and especially through His last prophet, the universal Prophet Muhammad. He has shown us the ways of the corrupted people and the liars, the hypocrites. And He has shown us that He is ever in command. That He's ever in charge of all affairs in the skies and on earth. And that we don’t have to worry about the advances that the wicked world is making. For all of their advances are advances towards their doom.
We know that in the life of the individual and I have experienced it, I have witnessed it. Judgment come before he passes away. Many of us think that great deceivers, cruel task masters, monstrous tyrants that suppress, oppress and torture. And cause the people to suffer, unbearable things. We think because they live to see a long life, 70, 80 years on earth. And pass out with their wealth and with their fame. And we think that they have not been punished in life. And I have heard many of our tearful people, grieving and weeping over their own condition. And wondering why G-d would let such evil people live so long and progress so much in the earth and go out without being punished.
Let me tell you, I can't bring those persons to you, dig them up out of the ground and put them back into their forms and give them their life back and force them to tell you the truth. But let me tell and you don't have to take my word for it. Not a one pass out of this world physically without getting his punishment.
He gets it in one form or another. G-d doesn't have to take your wealth from you to punish you. He doesn't have to deny you your followers to punish you. He can let you keep your wealth and keep your fame with your hypocritical followers. The followers of a hypocrite, the followers of a liar, the followers of a tyrant are themselves artificial. G-d let them stay together. But don’t think He didn't reach into the brain of that man and torture the chambers of his mind.
Don’t think He didn't stick His hand into the chest of that man and choke and torture his heart. For letting his heart and mind deviate from the path of truth. Every soul that comes on this earth and commit evils against society. They are punished in this life and the Holy Quran says, “and they shall be given the worst punishment in the next.”
The holy Quran says, that G-d says, “He will cause the beasts to speak to them.” You who remember the Bible's teaching on the beast. There are two pictures of this that come before my mind quite clearly now. One is that donkey who carried his master and sees before him an angel, this is the Bible's Old Testament, with a flaming sword in his hand. When he sees the angel, the donkey stops. He stops and refused to carry his master any further.
He speaks to the master and he says, "Why have you struck me these three times?" Then in the New Testament, there is the finality of the whole scene. The whole stage activity from the serpent in the garden to the beasts on the lake. In Revelations. This beast is seen by the prophets going down into a lake of fire. We know that picture language is a good way to get ideas over to people who are not acquainted with the language of abstract ideas or abstract things.
When you take these abstract ideas, these concepts and complicated descriptions of things. Complicated explanations of things and give them to the people in picture language, they can grasp those ideas. Long ago, the teachers discovered the simple fact that G-d, the creator. Not G-d in man, G-d the creator. That God the creator is the best of teachers. How did G-d the creator teach the man? He taught the man first with pictures. When you open your eyes to this physical world, you see physical pictures.
Before you can learn the language of your mother and your father, you have already began reading some of the language all mighty G-d. His language has begun to create you in your body before your mother and father can ever reach you. Because they don't have the power to reach your mind before G-d reach your mind. Because G-d don't make you in their image, He makes you in the image that He choose for you. They can't speak to you when you come fresh from the womb. But G-d begins to speak to you. He shows you the light outside. And He contrast it and show you the darkness, is that right?
He lets you experience quiet in the womb of your mother for nine months and then throw you out into a noisy world and speaks to your mind with noise. He speaks to you with extremes and begins shaking you up inside, making the atoms of your being quicken and come into activity. So that your mind begins turning over and over to try to understand, "What is this message G-d is trying to give me through my physical eyes, through my physical ears, through the physical flesh. What is G-d trying to say to me?" The book says, "G-d is trying to say to you that this is only the beginning of a marvelous creation."
"I'm only watering and plowing and stirring up the ground of your being so that I can have that key to divinely bust forth so that my real man will take form in the flesh." So, deceivers come along and they reverse G-d's way. And tell the people, fairy tales that have no base in reality. They take and twist the picture language of G-d and twists it into some fairytale language and separate it from its base in reality. And tell the people, "No, this is not talking about your sinful flesh. This is not talking about the sinful creation, this material world."
They tell the people, “that this is talking about something up there that has reality up there and doesn't have reality down here. That this is false and up there is real, that demons are in the heart of the Earth. And that this whole physical world is a hellish world. Just the surface itself is torment. When you die, your soul is going to sink beneath the surface into the interior of the Earth. And G-d or Satan will be waiting with a pitchfork to take your soul, pick it up and throw it into the open furnace of fire. He's going to torture you forever and ever. You will never come out of that. And for what will he torture me for?
He will do that to you for lying. He will do that to you for committing fleshly adultery and fleshly fornication. For stealing a loaf of bread. For not confessing Jesus Christ that he is the only begotten son of G-d. G-d in the flesh died in his blood, his precious, holy blood, innocent blood paying for your sins. If you don't confess that, you will go down into the heart of the earth. “Even if I didn't lie?” Even if you didn't lie. “Even I didn't steal a loaf of bread?” Even if you didn't steal a loaf of bread. “Even if I didn't commit fleshly fornication and adultery?” Even if you didn't commit fleshly fornication and adultery, you will still go down into a fiery furnace. And Satan will burn you forever and ever and ever.”
And minds accept that and give their bodies and their souls to the preacher in the church. And go to their death believing fairytales, not white lies, cruel, monstrous lies. “Oh, man. Why would you come back from your trip and start lashing out at Christians and churches, Christianity? Why attack Jesus Christ?” You have misunderstood me. I haven't yet attacked Christians. I haven't yet attacked Christ. I have only attacked foreign lies that have been given to Christians that shouldn't be with Christians and had been charged to Jesus who is innocent of all those lies. He said, “He will cause the beast to speak to them.”
All right, let's move on. We should ask the question, "Why is the minister here? Why does the minister constantly come out here and force us to get back into our holy image? Why is the minister so determined to keep us with our hand on the handle of truth and our eyes looking at G-d, the author of truth? Why is he here insisting that we remain a congregation, an orderly congregation? And that we have leadership in an orderly society? That we have self-government in the individual and that we respect government in the society and in the world? Why does the chief minister continue to insist upon these things?” I give you the answers that all the servants of G-d gave from time without end. That is this, there is a precious creation that G-d has made. That creation is the human essence. The human substance, the human nature, the human mind and soul and spirit. Those people or persons who don't want to come into this nature, who don't want to be human beings, they long ago decided that they were going to keep human beings from coming into power on earth. And the human being stood up and he tried to fight the fight alone. But he couldn't make it because those deceivers had got the jump on the human being.
They were greedy for the physical world. They got the physical materials before the human being could get strong on earth. They came into material power and they used the superiority of physical weapons to keep the good people, the innocent people under their feet. And the people prayed out to G-d, "Oh G-d, show us a way. Give us a way out of this prison cell that these materialist monsters have put us in. Give us a way out of this hell of moral corruption that these wicked sinners keep us in."
The book says, “G-d answered the prayer of the righteous caller.” He said, “let me explain this thing to you.” He said, “that I said before I made the human being to the angels, that I am going to make a ruler in the earth. I'm going to make him out of mud, stinky earth and I'm going to fashion that muddy, stinky earth into shape. When I breathe into that stinky muddy shaped human being of my own knowledge and wisdom, bow down you angels to my new creature.”
When He said this, all the angels suddenly submit. They said, "Oh G-d, we have no knowledge except that what you have given us," and they prostrated themselves and submitted to Adam.
Not Adam the pale, white looking body that you've seen pictures in Bibles, and other sculptures of what-not. Not that Sunday school, fairytale kindergarten kind of concept of a man. We are talking about something greater than anything you can put in physical description. Greater than you in your own physical description. Greater than the whole humanity in physical description. For only one mind, only one heart made in the image of G-d's ruler. He is greater by himself than all the other human beings, though they number billions on the earth.
We are talking about a particular kind of, special kind of mind and heart and nature and spirit that G-d wanted to make to rule the earth. When He said this all the angels submitted, but their chief did not submit. The leader of the angels refused to submit. And G-d says, "What happened to you, Iblis?" He said, "Ma laka? What has happened to you? What is the matter with you Oh, Iblis?" That was his name, Iblis, "What has happened to you that you haven't submitted? All of your followers have submitted and here you are standing, refusing to submit.” He said, "I'm better than he."
Arrogant, self-serving mentality, thinking of himself before he thinks of what is right and what is best for the whole. He's thinking of himself. "I'm better than he. You made me of fire and him, of clay. Black, stinky earth, fashioned into shape." Now, who is this angel, who was the leader of all of the other angels? Who had a nature that was not like those angels he was leading? They had no nature, they confessed with their own word. That they didn't have even a nature to disagree with G-d. They said, "We don't have any knowledge, illa ma alamtana, except, what you have given us."
Now, here the Holy Quran, is using picture language. Teaching as G-d teach the baby when he first come from womb. Giving him picture language to open his mind to a higher kind of language of truth. The angels are things that we can see that’s having no physical form. Invisible entity. Is that right? We find that in creation, there are many invisible things that have reality. That act on us from without and from within. Is that right? There are the forces of gravity, the forces of electricity, the forces of light, there are all kind of forces. There are the hidden invisible forces of noise. We hear the noise, we can't see the noise, but there is also a force behind noise or in noise that affects the human being's nature. Not just the noise. The noise hits the physical eardrum.
But there is also something in the noise that can affect your very nature, that is invisible. There are many, many invisible entities in creation. Many that science has not yet discovered. Many that the science has already discovered, early man had not known. Early man thought that those invisible forces had some kind of reality like human reality. That they talked and conversed with each other. That they had wives and husbands and sons and whatnot. As the man came into more knowledge, he realized that these forces are only invisible forces in physical matter. That these forces have direct relationship with the physical world.
All right. Now, when man comes into this knowledge, he takes on a new light. And this light we call it the light of knowledge, the light of science, is that right? When a person is learned or smart, we call him bright. If he's ignorant we might call him dull or dumb. This is the language that the world has given to us. They have translated physical light into a term to serve the meaning for spiritual and rational light. In the religious language, we have light meaning spiritual light, spiritual knowledge. Or deeper knowledge into the nature of things that are physical.
And the physical world has their knowledge, and they refer to it also as light, but they don't use the term 'light' anymore. But we still use the term 'bright' for a smart person. Is that right? All right. G-d, with this language wants to bring pictures to our mind that will enable us to understand a higher concept, a higher reality or a higher language of that reality. He said that the leader of the angels refused. Who became the leader of the angels? Had he always been the leader of angels? Well, in his creation he was. But man had to grow to become leader over the angels. Though he had the substance, he has the potential, the capacity to become the leader of angels. Yet he had to go in the earth as an inferior and become the master of the leader of the angels. Is this not the scripture?
All right. You preachers well know, you know I'm on the track of clear proof. All right. This particular leader over these angels is none other than mind. Mind has to live on earth and grow into the knowledge of creation. For when G-d brings mind into the physical world, mind knows nothing. Not that mind doesn't have anything, but G-d causes mind to go into a deep sleep. As the Genesis say, "That He causes Adam to fall into a deep sleep."
"While he was in a deep sleep, G-d made Eve." What does that mean? It means that G-d brings man into existence on earth knowing nothing. Although in his cells, in the genetics of his cells, there is something. There is knowledge of his past.
You who studied these things in high school and college you know I'm on the path of lighted truth. The man comes here knowing nothing, but he has come under a deep sleep. He has lost contact with the reality of his existence before G-d put him into the shape that he's now in, delivered from his mother's womb. Not that he existed before, no, he didn't exist before. But his essence exists before. His essence came from a body that was existing long, long, long time ago. The body of creation, the body of human flesh. This creation in human flesh has been in existence for a long, long time.
And my essence that I get from my father's sperm and from my mother's ovaries is in me. It came out of them. Those genes and the knowledge that was in those genes of my mother and father and in their relatives and in their ancestors, all the way back to the first creature that walked this earth has been transferred to me. Maybe not all of it, but in the sperm came some of it. From the ovaries of the mother came some of it. From the blood and from the body of the mother came some of it. I have a part of me of something that is a part of many, many things in the Earth and in the people extending all back in time over many, many, many centuries, thousands of years into time.
But when G-d bring me here out of my mother's womb, I know nothing. Because G-d, as Genesis, said, "Put me in a deep sleep." Then He decides that, "I'm going to teach you all over again. I'm going to give humanity another chance." Every time a new baby is born, G-d has given humanity another chance to stand up and be right, to be truthful, to be honest. He gives us another chance by blotting out all the past, and let us start out fresh again.
The scientists say, those psychoanalysts’ people in the field of psychiatry. They say, “that you can get the mind of a person and cause that person to regress in time, backstep in time. And keep connecting known things with known things. They say that they have proof that they can go back into the early, early years, sometimes into the first month of the life of a child and get evidence, get knowledge of what happened. Some say they even can go back and get knowledge of what happened in the womb. Even others say that they can go back and get knowledge of what happened even before the germ took life in the womb of the mother. I don't know how much about that distance is true, but I do know you can go back and find truth behind you, a far distance behind you. Truth that you wouldn't ordinarily be able to get.
G-d says, "I'm going to make a ruler in the Earth." The chief of the angels said, "No. I'm not going to accept it." This chief of the angels is the mind of man who has come into power because of his knowledge of material things, of the material world. He has learned how to work the forces of nature. He's learned how to use the forces of fire, the forces of light, the forces of magnetism, the forces of gravity, the force of heat, the force of lightning, the force of sound. He's learned how to use these things to put himself into a higher position of authority and ride on a big horse through the land and command the others as his servants and slaves. He is the leader of the angels.
When thunder claps and makes its loud noise and lightning flashed, it frightened the caveman back into his cave. This chief on the horse, he rides as though there's no fear in him. Because he has gotten in touch with the reality of the angel in the thunder and the angel in the lightning. He knows that they serve him and that he has no reason to fear. Not to say he can't meet with a fatal accident. But he knows the chances of such an accident is very, very rare. He goes bravely through the land while other men are running under caves and behind rocks for cover. This is the angel who leads the other angels, for he himself is both angel and man.
In man are both invisible forces, and also you can see the visible being. Man has to act in the nature of the physical world as the physical forces cannot get out of the nature of the physical world. Man himself, to a certain degree, cannot get out of the nature of the physical world. When we come up first in the Earth before we come into civilization and to the knowledge of the world, we are just like animals. We're just like trees and plants. We cannot get out of the nature of the physical world. As our knowledge increases, we learn how to break the chains and the gravity of physical world and get away from the law of nature and come into a man's law.
We step above the natural law and make a plane for ourselves and call it man's law. But he has to come from that simple, simple origin. He has to come from the same nature that the creation is of. So, he in his beginning, was an angel. But he grows in knowledge and becomes the leader of angels. And when he gets to think of himself of being the boss in creation, that, "I have no force to answer to. I am my own god." And if G-d raised up a man among them, and this man began to question their knowledge, question their conduct, they say, "Who are you?" Then G-d revealed it to his prophet to say to the angels. G-d has decided to make a ruler in the land, not one of fire.”
Your knowledge is of the nature of fire. Fire burns up things. Fire twists things out of their natural form. Fire cause things to degenerate, to deteriorate, break a loose. What we call it, disintegration. Brings about disintegration of things and destroys forms and create new forms. We throw a piece of fat in the fire, and we end up with some grease and some smoke. When G-d created His man and say, "I'm now going to make him the ruler in the land," what is he going to do? He's going to burn the world too, but with a new kind of fire. His fire shall be the fire of pure light. Light doesn't destroy the form of things.
Light reveals the form of things. It is different than fire. The light just shows you what that is. G-d is not going to force a devil to come back into good form. He's only going to shine the light onto the devil and let the world see, and let the devil see that you are out of form. He's not going to change the human nature. He doesn't want to make a human being an angel, a spook flying around somewhere in no world. He's just going to shine the light on the real thing that He created and show you, "There's the reality that I made to exist. Let it come to be."
Brothers and sisters, our distinguished and honored guests, all of you. Today I can bravely say without any ounce of doubt or darkness in my mind that we don't have any human problem today that we can't conquer. The time of darkness and falsehood and Satan is over. The bible says that Jesus came into the world and he said that, "This is not my world. This is Satan's world.” I can tell you that Muhammad was here 1,400 years ago and because of the extension, the expansion of that truth and the extension of that truth, and the perfection and the completion of the prophet's teaching in Prophet Muhammad. And because of the blessing upon a nappy-headed, brown-faced black man as I’m called. Because of the blessings upon this man, a follower of Master Fard Muhammad. A follower of the honorable master Elijah Muhammad. And an independent leader today, because of the blessings upon me. Satan doesn't rule this world anymore.
Allahu Akbar. The book says, “He will cause the beast to speak to them.” I'm here to tell you that all those prophecies have come to come to pass. The flood has already taken place. The raining of fire and brimstone have already happened. The poisoning of the air, the land, the waters, the poisoning of the very breath that people breathe have already happened. The plagues have already came.
Armageddon has long been raging. Armageddon has been going on for a long time. The Gog and Magog have already met and the battle is almost finished. The greatest part of it, most of you have missed.
We only have now the fallout, the residue, to clean-up. G-d has already fought the battle and won the war.
Nations have lost their courage. Great leaders have lost their courage. They just can't come before on the TV anymore and boast of the power that they had. Nations have lost their daring spirit. They don't know how to come before us now and threaten us and frighten us into holes like we are little animals. They come before us now and they try to maintain some sense and some face of dignity and respect.


