07/04/1976
IWDM Study Library 
The Need for Leadership

By Imam W. Deen Mohammed
Minister Intro:
... to the world now and break up all of what they call in the Muslim world, Schools of Thought, there will be one thought and the thought is on Allah, Islam is the religion, no school, no division. He is breaking us down, and as we have witnessed in 16 months, our leaders keeps extending the hand of friendship to the entire Muslim world, and when they look at America, I mean, I know especially in the last two weeks that I've been dealing with the brothers from the east, who are expecting the Muslims to be there for the March in December, now all of them, we are the pride of the Muslim world. The Muslim world stick their chests out when it comes to the Nation of Islam, and the Honorable Warith Deen Mohammed. All of us want to make sure that Warith is coming. Will he be here? And wherever he goes the Muslim communities, in Barbados, in Guyana, in Trinidad, those Muslim communities there, who are followers in the Mosque, and followers in Muhammad's Mosque here he is. Takbir!
IWDM:
Allahu Akbar!
IWDM:
Takbir!
IWDM:
Allahu Akbar!
IWDM:
Takbir!
IWDM:
Allahu Akbar!
IWDM:
Warith is going to go up on the mountain, he's been up there. Allahu Akbar. All Praise is Due to Allah. Brothers and sisters, Assalamu Alaikum.
IWDM:
As Salamu Alaikum.
In the Name of Allah, The Beneficent, The Most Merciful, May His peace, His blessings, forever be upon His servant and Messenger Muhammad. I bear witness that there is no G-d but Allah, the One and only, I bear witness that Muhammad is His true servant and His Messenger. Brothers and sisters, it's really a beautiful sight today, seeing all of us here, peaceful looking, loving looking, smiling. Enjoying sitting on the floor with each other. All Praise be to Allah.
Those who can't manage too well, if you can't brace yourself against each other, find a wall, and lean up against it. If you find it difficult, next time you come find a wall, get right to the wall and lean up against the wall, it helps. Then for those who just can't manage, we have seats in the balcony, but I tell you, if you go abroad and see people, not only Muslims, but people all over the world, old people, simple people, sitting on the ground, and sitting on floors, you'll make a real effort to learn to sit on the floor. But they make you feel ashamed of yourself. They can get down and relax on the ground, on the floor, and we can't do it. Used to all these old straight back hard chairs that cut off the blood circulation and put you in the hospital very early too. That floor will make you healthy, really.
Brothers and sister, we have some announcements to make after we have conclude our talk, for you our registered members, I want you to remain around. I believe we are hooked up now on the telephone throughout the country. I'd like to say to the brothers and sisters out there, Assalamu Alaikum, and may Allah bless all of you for supporting the Nation of Islam, responding to our call, we pray Allah, that you enjoy this afternoon and hang around too after the meeting is over, after the sermons, if the sermon is over and finished, so that we can make some announcements.
It's a beautiful day out there today. It's Independence Day, you know. The 4th of July 1976. America's 200 years old today, as a government. So, we would like to say Happy Birthday, but I feel to say, a better birthday America. May America have a better birthday every year. Brothers and sisters, we want to get right in our subject. We have come to this time in the history of the Nation of Islam that we really have answered the Prophecy of The Honorable Elijah Muhammad. He prophesied. Not that he was a Prophet, he never called himself a Prophet. But he prophesied, he said, "There will come a time where we won't hold meetings like we hold them now. He's saying there will come a time when we won't spend the hours in teaching that we spend now. So that time has arrived. Today, for the half an hour or so, and I think we can manage for half an hour or so, today I want to talk about leadership. The need for leadership.
Many of us fail to understand the scripture and think the scripture is only concerned about people being spiritually happy. Many think that the world and the religion should be separate. Religion should have its own spiritual life, but worldly of things should be left to the world. That idea has really ruined the respect of religious society. It has made respect of the religious society just go down, down, down, down, and until now the religious society, in most of the world, is just following along, pacing, making a little progress but hardly doing anything worthwhile in the community. In Islam its quite different, we are told in Islam that we have to live in the world. We have to be concerned, about the community, of the needs of the community. And we have to do something about conditions in our community, this is the teaching of Islam. We find some of the preachers in Christianity and other religions, preaching this, but the great majority are satisfied just to make the people shout, get happy, and send them back home. It's a kind of addiction to stimulus. The stimulus is spiritual excitement, they come in, they get high and go back home. Conditions never change.
The one who is hooked on narcotics, or alcohol, the alcoholics, his life is no different. Gets drunk, gets high, escapes reality, but when he wakes up things look the same. When religious people get like that, it shows that something has happened. Something terrible has happened. They've gotten off on the wrong path. So, we're going to talk about leadership today. And as we look back into time and see those great giants we call Prophets, Messengers of G-d, we look and we understand that those men were great leaders, they were not people who followed the herd. They were called shepherds, those that led the herd. Moses was a leader, Jesus was a leader. Before them Abraham was a leader. And Abraham was called the model leader, or the first of the leaders. Abraham the upright one. In the scripture his name was changed from Abram to Abraham, meaning father of many. Father of many. Father in the scripture means leader. Back in those days, father had meaning, because fathers led their families. In modern times the word father doesn't have much meaning, because fathers are not keeping their houses, their homes together, and fathers are not leading the families, right?
The wife goes her way, the children goes their way, the father is just left confused, looking for his wife and looking for his children all the time, right? But the father once upon a time was a leader. And Abraham, being such a strong and upright example of leadership was called father, because father was a very strong word for leader. It had very strong meaning for leader. But today, the word father doesn't mean so much. You can see that and understand why that in religion today, we don't call G-d Father. Only Christians call G-d Father. Jesus, he did this, instructed, according to the Bible, his followers to call G-d Father. He said, "Call no one Father except your Father who art in heaven." Well we know as Muslims that that was a mistranslation. The translators translated this teaching literally because they didn't understand the real meaning or the real teachings of Jesus, so they just translated it literally. And that meaning, the Semitic word, that have many, many, many shades of meaning. And it might mean father in one context and mean leader in another context. And those people who translated the Bible, they weren't that experienced in translating and reading and understanding the Semitic language, so when they translated they made very many mistakes.
We know now that father, in the scripture, means only leader, not father. It means leader. G-d doesn't have to make a father, fathers are made naturally. But when the father forgets that he's a leader and fail to work together with the society to see that the society has leadership, and they can not find a way through politics, and through other fields of knowledge then Almighty G-d has to bring revealed truth and revealed knowledge and teach them what leadership is all about. Is that right? So we find that in religion under the guidance of Almighty G-d has worked hard to preserve leadership. Now, what thing is more valuable to life, to human life, than leadership?
We know when a baby is born, the baby is born head first, but if the feet come out first we call it a breech birth. Is that right? We don't like to see the feet come out first, when life comes here it comes out head first. That's a sign that the head is first. When that baby starts to crawl around on the floor the head is leading the body. Is that right? The head is out front. Then that baby learns to stand up then the head is on top. Are you seeing how the head just keep moving? Came out first, went out front, and got on top. All Praise to Allah.
So, it's a sign in our whole development, that Almighty G-d is telling us that people, the human beings in society, has to have leadership. The trouble with the world today is disrespect for leadership. No respect for leadership. Everybody wants to be his and her own leader. Even this disease now has filtered down to the little four, five year old. They don't want you telling them anything. They want to be their own leader. But look what the great builders of Western civilization has let happen. We weren't building this world. We aren't responsible for what's happening. If civilization has fallen apart it's someone else's fault, not ours. It's the fault of those Caucasian builders. Who started off on the wrong foot.
The army, soldiers, the foot soldiers, the squad, they step off on the left foot. And the whole society follows that kind of command. Not only in the army but the Western world is in the habit of stepping off on the left foot, on the wrong feet. Step off on the left foot, one, and then the right foot, two. You see? But in the world they say put your best foot forward. But is that your left foot? Is that the weakest foot? A man's right leg normally develops stronger than his left leg. Is that right? Because it is naturally our instinct, it's obvious to start on the right. Is that right? His right hand is normally stronger than his left, his right leg is normally stronger, if you want to kick somebody you won't kick him with your left leg, very few people you will find trying to kick somebody with the left leg. Kick with the right leg and give a good hard kick. Is that right?
Because nature has orientated us to go in one direction more than the other. You see? And we call that the right, because that's where the strength is, the right side is the strong side. In the Western army they step off on the left foot. To let you know that we need you to think wrong, without you knowing it. You see? We don't need your right mind over here, we need your wrong mind. There might be something holy about it but they're not just depending on just that because they're going to face many things that are not holy and they want you to go as fast and as strong against that thing as you did against the thing that was unholy. Is that right?
So, if there's an innocent person in the battle you have to go against them just like you do a guilty one. If the land is innocent that you're fighting against you have to fight against it just as hard as those who are guilty, right? So, to get people to respond like this you have to get them started on the left foot. The world has been lost, lost from the natural way of Almighty G-d. In the Bible we read of Jacob, gripping his brother by the foot to get his birthright. Now if Jacob was due to come out last, and he being a twin in the womb with his brother, trips his brother up so that he would come out first. So here is something last coming out ahead of time. Is that right?
So, it's just a story telling us this, that wrong came out first, under the leadership of Jacob. Under the leadership of the grafted mentality that took over religion and began to lead the world against Almighty G-d, using the Name of G-d to do it. And we find that Jacob, in the Bible, trips his brother up, and he gets out first ahead of him. When Jacob conceives a dream a world in a dream, and his world is just the reverse of the world that was revealed naturally by Almighty G-d. The world goes backwards. Backward, backwards, things begin to reverse, things begin to reverse. And all the time G-d is supposed to be coming forward. Is that right?
But the book says, G-d come. The Bible, G-d come, G-d come. And this one who is preaching G-d come, is reversing G-d's way of bringing things about that he desires. You see? So, who is this G-d that is coming? This is his G-d that is coming. The G-d of the deceiver, the G-d of the liar, the Satan himself, his G-d is coming. How is his G-d coming? His G-d is coming in the image of G-d's man. His G-d is coming in the image of righteousness. He'll pretend to be the servant of G-d, or as the book says, the angel of life. But he will really be the angel of death. Satan, the angel of death.
To tell the people that the world has come to that, it makes them think that you're some kind of weird or strange species. No mastermind, no deceitful wicked man like that has been ruling the world, masterminding of all the things that put us in the spiritual state that we're in, but it's absolutely true brothers and sisters. There has been a wicked mind, a wicked mind. A wicked mind that knew how G-d wanted things done. Didn't know how to do things as G-d wanted them done, but knew G-d's plan. G-d's plan for bringing truth home. Step by step, until the world come under the light of truth. This wicked mind got that plan and then reversed it. Because if G-d will bring truth home this way, I will bring falsehood home by G-d's method. He will use G-d's method to bring home a lie and falsehood. This is the plan of Satan himself, and this is the real thing that we live under in the world today. America? Yes, America.
America is the place that has been affected the most, by the works of the devil. No other place on the map has been affected more than America. Why do you say this on America's birthday? Because we hope that America will have a better birthday next year.
You don't correct a naughty child by overlooking his mischief. And if you want to reach that naughty child you better watch his mischief and check it at every crooked turn. If you let him by once he thinks he can get by 10 times. If you let him by twice he thinks he can get by 20 times. I'm one that keep my eye on things and notice trouble that I can make for myself by overlooking trouble, and I try hit trouble whenever it sticks out its head. I don't wait till his eyes show, I hit it right on the top of his head. That's the way you've got to handle trouble.
All Praise is Due to Allah. In the development of leadership, the world as we know it, the Western powers came to the top, to the forefront, and to the top. They managed to seize the throne as ruler of all the world. Do you know that? Sometimes we forget, we're just quick to forget. I remember hearing about terrible things in the newspaper, they really hurt me so bad, it interfered with my life for a while, you know. I go out the next day and everybody forgot about it.
In a civilized society, I mean, a truly civilized society, that thing would be remembered so long that it wouldn't happen again for generations. That's right, the people would remember it for so long that they would keep it from happening again for generations. In this tale, some of you will recall, the crucifixion. Crucified in the tale. In a more horrible way than Jesus himself was supposed to have been crucified. And it didn't take most of us nothing but a day or so to forget that that ever happened. That's all this world is made up, you know. Not just us, the whole American society is like this. America is worse even than the other nations of the West.
Go to Europe, you won't find the people there as hard, cold, as insensitive. Most of them are more sensitive, more human. But here in America where we have all the freedom, this where you find the most hatred, and the mountains of dark lies. This should tell us something. This should tell us that there must be something diabolic, something satanic, something awful evil and wicked, something strange and weird about the mentality over here in this country. But most of us won't wake up. This is so beautiful when you're talking about the beauty of life and the sweetness of things. Why do you pick all these ugly faces? Because I want to preserve the beauty that we have.
The dirtier the city gets the dirtier you have to prepare to get. If the city is real clean you need somebody to go out and tend to it, perhaps they can go out there in their best clothes, business clothes, white garments. Is that right? Whereas if the city gets all littered up and stinky and funky and filthy and slimy, somebody is going to have to go out there in scavenger clothes, and be prepared to get some filth on them. Is that right? Now the book says that Christ, in the return, would get himself right into the thick of things. He would slay the wicked so much and so hard that his garments would become dyed with their blood. His garments would be drenched in the blood of the wicked. Is that right?
Now we can't see this meaning physical blood. The job of the religious man is not to get himself all bathed, sprinkled with physical blood, but his job is to get into the human quest of justice, and the abuse of justice. And if he has to, he has to go right up to Satan, and slap in his face, reach his right hand into his throat, or into his bowels, and pluck out his vital organs. He can't be so delicate, so pious infused that he can't wrestle and fight, hand to hand with Satan if he have to. Do you understand? So, this is what this job is all about. We have to be prepared to go right out there and get into the slime, into the muck and mire. And march over through the ranks of Satan and walk right up to the beast that is the most abominable and grab his nasty slimy head and cut it of his body. Is that right?
That's what we have to be prepared to do. The trouble with this world leadership its being too babyish. Too angel like. Silk robes, sweet milk and honey, and something way, way up there, away from the noises of earth, for the man who accepts that kind of life he can't get into the problems of the world. He wants to be separate, he wants to keep his collar clean, his hands clean. No indeed, that's not the life. Moses was a leader. Moses got down with the people. Is that right? Moses led the people. Moses led the people, face on, and told them, put down this corruption, desert these filthy things, put down these lies. Is that right? Moses told them to stand up straight, bring yourself up, stand up straight, walk straight. And they argued with him at every turn in the road. Is that right? Well, what's next Moses? We've been following you now for days and we still don't see anything that looks as prosperous as these other things. What's next Moses? Moses had to contend with those people and put up with them. He was leading them towards mind strength. They had been singing songs about the order, but they didn't have no mental development. They wanted something of their own, but they weren't prepared to hold it if they got it.
Moses understanding this, kept his eye on the highest in creation, that is divine justice, divine truth, and he kept marching ahead. He said, you'll get your milk and honey, but not right now. Wait. There's a time for drinking milk and honey, and there's a time for preparing yourself to sit down and enjoy it once you get it. Is that right? But they wanted to drink it before they were ready for it. What good will milk and honey do you? Give you disease. Weaken your limbs, milk and honey is for people that's doing well. People that's got flour, sugar, beans, rice, meat. Those are the people that enjoy the milk and honey. The man that haven't had anything to eat he won't enjoy milk and honey. It might taste good for a second or two, and then he'll say "Good G-d Almighty, you've got something heavier than this?"
So Moses was a leader brothers and sisters but he knew he had to gradually, gradually bring those people up, physically, mentally, and morally so that they could get strong enough to appreciate the delicate and kinder things of life. Is that right? Jesus came along behind him, and Jesus told the people, "You ain't ready. All of those Prophets came behind me, and I found everything as though nothing ever happened. I have to fulfill now the promise. Because all of them came and you haven't followed any of them, that's what he said in effect. He said look you haven't thought of these problems, so I have to demonstrate to you how you are supposed to follow the Prophets that came before me. He said it in the words I have to fulfill. Is that right? I came to fulfill. Meaning I came to live right before your eyes what those Prophets were talking about because since their time, nobody has been living what they were talking about. Called the world a bunch of hypocrites. Is that right? For failing to demonstrate what the Prophets had brought into the world for them to live by. So, Jesus said, "You don't have anything. You don't have anything. Your world is the world of darkness, ruled by Satan. He told them you ain't ready for me." Is that right?
He was in the world but the world received him not. Is that right? No place in the world for him. When he was called to make the supreme sacrifice, even his own disciples fell on the wayside. They refused to acknowledge themselves. Didn't want to identify with that brave man called Christ. Is that right? Peter, the very rock of the church. Cock crowed three times. Is that right? The cock crowed three times, and every time Peter failed. They asked, "Who is this?" "I don't know this man." Is that right? Peter said, "I don't know this man." After Christ had made the supreme sacrifice, had done all of this work, and been cast out of the society. Then here comes Peter, here comes Paul. Oh, they ready now. But Jesus said, "As long I'm in the world I'm the light of the world." Jesus was gone. By Paul's own words, pardon me... By Jesus own words, Paul was missing about. He should have followed and showed his strength and sincerity when Jesus was in the world as the light. He waited until Jesus was out there, there was no light to guide Paul. Paul led us astray. You mean to tell me the disciple of Jesus Christ, the Apostle led us astray? Yes, indeed. He led himself astray, he didn't know any better.
We have inherited in the West a leadership that wasn't strong enough to follow strength when they got it. Is that right? Then those who came up behind strength that fell into darkness and weakness, start compromising with the pagans. There's a certain Saint in Catholicism, in the Catholic Church called Saint Basil, I think his name Basil, B-A-S-I-L, Basil. Saint Basil. This Saint instructed the Christian people to use whatever pagan concepts were available to them, to use these concepts to speak through this concept to Christianity. What kind of man is that? Who will tell the Christian people to pick up the horn of the devil and blow your music through his horn. A horn that has been designed to play the music of Baal. This concept should be G-d's concept. G-d never said pick up Satan's imaginations, pick up his concepts and speak through his mind. That's what you're doing. Anytime you pick up the ideas of paganism and talk Christianity through those pagan ideas, through the structure of pagan ideas, you are using the tools of the devil and speaking through the mind structure of the wicked world. Is that right? That's what happened. So as a result we began, as a Christian society, we began to take on holidays of the pagan.
Easter, a pagan holiday. It teaches about this, it tells you. Easter, a pagan holiday, Christmas a pagan holiday, Ash Wednesday, a pagan idea. That's right. All of these are pagan, all ideas from idolatrous Pagans. Pagans, an idolatrous people, but we have these ideas in our religion today. The Trinitarian idea itself is pagan. The pagans are idolatrous people, they used to worship the world like the forces of the world. They worshipped animals, man, thunder, fire, lighting, the sun, stars, moon. They worship rivers, lakes, mountains, lakes, everything. There, every stage of religion was making an effort to actually bring about some order, some harmony, some agreement, some unity.
So, they finally arrived at it. What they arrived at was a description of creation. And they used description of creation for G-d, who is Creator. For the human being, the forces that we value most are the forces of life, is that right? So there were many fertility cults, religious orders that worship light, the power of light, the forces behind light. The Christmas tree and all of these things are part of fertility worship, the rabbits and the eggs for Easter is from fertility worship. All of these things, even the lights on the Christmas tree is from fire worship. And instead of setting the fire and worshiping the flames, they put lights on it. Is that right? I'm giving you facts of the history, you can go search the history of these idolatrous people, Pagan societies, for yourself, and you'll see that what we're giving here is the truth.
They have a pagan idea of a woman. This woman is called Athena. This woman was supposed to be Lydia, light. The whole world was just nature and light. The light of the whole world. And in western mythology, this woman is shown sometimes with a lamb in her arms. The idea of a lamb laying in Mary's arms came from this Pagan concept. So, it is for the Father G-d, G-d the Father. This idea is found in Zeus. And in other Pagan characters are characters from ancient Pagan ideas or idolatrous worship. The Son of the Father is in Apollo, Apollo the son of Zeus, is that right? The duty for Apollo, the one who was concerned about human society, you see? This was Apollo, the son of Zeus. There are many likenesses of G-d the Father and the virgin Son in ancient mythology that were Pagan or idolatrous.
So, this Christianity as we see it is no new religion. It was way before Jesus, and Jesus would have never have taken up these crazy ideas. He didn't speak to any crazy ideas like that. Jesus just spoke the truth. Of sacrifice, you know where it comes from, you know enough about it, you've seen a few movies of ancient times. You know about blood sacrifices, you know what kind of society practices that. The sacrificing of human life itself to please G-d is a Pagan idea. For in the Bible, G-d says that he does not desire blood sacrifices. Is it right? The sacrifice that he loves is a repenting heart, that's what is written in the Bible, but in the New Testament, the word has told us that G-d wanted a blood sacrifice and before this idea was put in the New Testament, the Bible tells us that G-d does not want a blood sacrifice.
So somewhere, there's a big lie, isn't there? The lie is in the language. But the thief liar and the thief have formed the language to say what he want it to say. It has something else under the name blood. What kind of blood should you be willing to sacrifice for G-d? Blood, in ancient days, especially under Moses, was called unclean. Is that right? If a person has blood on them, they were polluted and couldn't come into the service, is that right? Read the Bible. All right. So, the sacrificing of blood means the sacrificing of your wickedness, giving up your impurities, giving up your corruption. This is the kind of sacrifice G-d wants to make, not the blood of the flesh, but the corruption of the spirit.
Throw out that filth, throw out the impurities that people sometimes get so weak for, that that's become the only blood in their life. Some people can't live by purity, they can't live by strength, the only thing they can live by is filth and corruption. Is that right? So when that thing becomes a blood of a person, then that person has to pour out his own lifeblood to save himself. When the world becomes filthy like that, then the world has to pull it out of themselves to save themself, but never should have they called this the blood of a man's body. The whole Bible has been teaching us it's this blood. Is that right? And then teaching us against putting our ideas in physical blood, and then trying to raise man up out of this blood.
A life, when it begins in blood, it is formed in G-d's glory and it is bloody. It is offensive to us, the first thing we want to do is wash the blood off that newborn baby, is that right? So, G-d has naturally conditioned us not to like the sight of blood, and to see blood, and if you let blood stay around for just a little while it gets stinky, it becomes germy. Blood will make the society filthy and contaminated, is that right? It will corrupt the society. So, we know that when you have an issue of blood or something, we know we have to keep it clean, is that right? Because that blood performs a service for the physical flesh. It carries the impurities and it carries the filth of the body. It's fluid. Is that right? The blood is fluid, so all the time, it's passing and passing all things that the body does not need. If you make it solid now, suppose the blood would become solid, you would die, certainly, is that right?
It would lose its ability to pass away the unwanted, and carry the good where it's supposed to go. They tell human beings that you supposed to believe in the blood of Christ. Take a little wine as his blood and a little cracker as his body. Flesh, is that right? So, he's drinking my blood, all of this, and my blood, eat all of this. They know that if they can get your mind to accept a language, that language, it will form new inside your body. How many understand what they're saying? How many Christians, and some right here today, most of them used to be Christians, but there are some Christians right here today whose hands are filthy. And if I were to ask them, "What does the cracker mean? What does the flesh of Jesus mean? What does the blood of Jesus mean?" They say, "I don't know. It means his blood. He gave his blood to save the world."
But that means that they have been carrying these ideas without understanding. So, if one carries the idea of drinking a man's blood and the idea of eating a man's flesh without understanding a higher idea over this or behind this, he is being trained in hate, as a cannibal. Now, he might not go out there and just attack somebody and drink the blood out the vein like Dracula, or go out there and seeing somebody and just start chewing the physical flesh off his body, but in his moral life, he'll be doing these things. He'll be a cannibal in his family life. He 'll be a cannibal in his religious life, a cannibal in his economic life, spirit life, a cannibal in his political life. Look at the western world, don't you see one big cannibal? One big cannibal eating raw flesh and drinking the blood of people. The mind has been trained to do this.
In other parts of the world, they're taught the same things, but nowhere in the world has this kind of seductive, undercurrent teachings been so successful as it's been in America. Why? Because America has tried to achieve the perfect democracy. Other nations have not tried as hard America to achieve the perfect democracy. The idea of democracy that Americans were given is a corrupt idea of democracy, it was political deception, a hypocritical democracy. How can there be democracy with no knowledge of democracy? For the majority of the people, the knowledge of democracy that they have is freedom. Is that right? Freedom to do your own thing. Freedom to vote for who you want to vote for. Is that right? Freedom to go into business, any business you choose. Freedom to just live your life as you want to live it, this is supposed to be democracy. Look in the jungle and you will find the same freedom out there.
Adult animals have been conditioned by G-d through nature, to survive in a free-for-all world like they live in. Human beings are not ruled by animal instinct. The average animal, when he gets full, he's through, is that right? He will see the smaller animals, but he gets full, he's through. He not going out there, just keep killing. But the human being, once he gets in the habit of killing, he kills and kills and kills. He don't kill just to stay full, his belly remains full, he still killing, isn't that right? And it so happens, in the development of this mentality in the West, that the biggest killers are those who are the fullest.
So, you see, we have a different life all together to deal with, though they're dealing with human life. Human life is not like animal life. This crazy western mind, that is the physical and natural world with the guidance of the Jacobites that said society, if it's to be free, has to be left alone, to do what it wants to do. It should have as much fights as it wants, it should have as much cruelty as it wants, as much lies as it wants. If it's free, it has to have as much of anything it desires. It is the idea that we live under in this world, the idea that you're supposed to have as much of whatever you desire. So, there is no law against establishing crime. But there's a law to punish you if you're caught. But there is no law to punish you from practicing crime, is that right?
You're free to be a criminal in America. Until caught by the bigger, or by the most fit. The survival among the fittest, is that right? So, if I have more money and more power than you, I can seize you if you're losing wars, right? And if I get too big for the government, governments begin to worry-"I'm not going to be fittest if I let this thing grow a little bit more." And then the government comes against me so that the fittest can survive, is that right? This is America. This kind of idea corrodes leadership. People can't come together for leadership because the whole society is designed against the development of strong leadership. The very idea of freedom suggests that you are not to combine your strength, but keep your strengths to yourself, you see? Freedom, freedom, freedom. Democracy, democracy, democracy. Government of the people, by the people. How can there be government of the people and by the people, when the people themselves, from the day that they are born, to the day they die, are being trained to resist, to rebel and ignore government?
So, a population that hasn't been trained to respect government, to know government and then move through the channels of government, how can that nation claim that it has nation, or a government that is of people and by the people? The average person don't even know what they talking about, government of the people and by the people. These are all tempting and attractive lies, to make the foolish masses think that they have the freedom to run it if they are not running it. You have the freedom to manage your own affairs if you're not managing your own affairs. But without knowledge, there is no freedom for a human being. A human being don't just move by his legs like a dog. A human being moves by his intelligence, by his mind. If we only have the freedom to transport ourselves with our legs, we have no more freedom than the animals have. Is that right?
If we only have the freedom to argue over taste, "Hey, who has the better piece of meat? We have no more freedom than the animals have. They have sense of smell and taste, they argue over the better pieces of the meat. The only freedom that we can call truly our own is the freedom to think, the freedom to act upon rational strength is the only freedom that human beings have. Now if this world hasn't encouraged you to develop your mind to reason, to think things out before you move, to understand your life and what you're doing. If they haven't that, then a majority of the people living in America are without leadership and the majority of the people in America don't have democracy and don't have freedom.
Take a man and put him in a society and tell him he's free, but take away the only tools he has to use to enjoy freedom with. Take that away from him. Put him in the world and tell him he's free and take his legs out from under him, take his arms off. Most of you don't know that the crucifix itself is a sign of what was coming upon the world. Not that Jesus the Prophet was done like that, but a people that's born without fathers, a people that's born without leadership, a people that's born without a mother and no father. Mother means society, father means leadership. So Jesus is a sign of what's going to happen or what was going to happen to the world. The ancient people knew it, the devil himself knew it and the devil himself put the image of Jesus on the cross as a sign of what the devil was going to do to the world. That he was going to bring the poor masses, those without leadership, without social father, without governmental fathers.
Look how long we lived in America, 300 years, without a father and government to defend us, is that right? Almost 300 years, a whole people lived in America without a father in government to defend us. And if you want to see a real bold sign that has all of the connections with the crucifix and with Jesus, look at our people, almost 300 years hanging on a limb of the crucifier. You want to see Jesus? Don't look back there 2000 years ago. This physical thing never happened, never did they take a man and hang him up on a physical cross like that. You say, "Well, how did we get that story?" From the builder of false and artificial mentality, from the builders of the lie that was fabricated to put you in the condition that you in, that's where you got it.
Now look, brothers and sisters, the Holy Qur'an says that Jesus is a sign. Not only is the man a sign, the book says that Jesus and his mother are a sign, is that right? Not only the man is a sign, but the mother too, is a sign. A sign that there is going to be a people born in a society who have no father to acknowledge it. It would have to cry to a spiritual father, because that was the only father they'll be able to identify with. Do you understand? And the world will mistreat it's receptive goodness, and who can you find any better in the world than the poor? If you want to get a feeling from people's heart, don't go to the rich. If you want to get a feeling from people's heart, don't go to the learned. Go to the poor, go to the ignorant and you will get a feeling from their heart.
Look. Jesus was a sign of the heart that's in the poor, sign of the heart that's in the ignorant people, and the pouring of all that blood brother is the sign of the pouring out of your life, not the life of a man that was supposed to have been crucified 2000 years ago. The nailing of the hands was not the nailing of the hands of a man 2000 years ago, it means that this block of the public, this big block of people because they had no father and they spoke from the only thing they knew to speak from, from the heart, from the spirit of G-d in themselves. They had no eloquent tongue to defend themselves in the halls of politics and science. So all they could do is speak from what they had, that was the spirit of G-d, is that right? And for doing that, they nailed the hands. It means, make it impossible for you to be financially successful. Nail your feet, it means make it impossible for you to go away from a persecuting environment, to a better one. You can't even walk out of the world. Everywhere you go, you carry the burden of a stigma on you. "You a nigga and a beast of prey everywhere you go", is that right?
So, though you're moving physically, you're making no movement at all. Your feet are nailed to the cross, is that right? Now look at book, you see yourself. The book says, "Jesus and his mother is a sign." I studied the Christian teachings and you will find that the preacher knows about it, you will find that Jesus, pardon me, his mother Mary is just one Mary, but there are two more Marys in the book. In fact, there are many Marys, but there are three major Marys.
Mary, the mother of Jesus. Mary, the sister of Martha. Mary, the prostitute, that was reformed, is that right? It's talking about nothing but the three types of societies, that's all they're talking about. Society has leadership of three levels. One is on the level of the doctors of law. The political is on the level of the spiritual people. And right at the bottom, you have those that don't have any leadership, is that right? Jesus was born from who? His mother didn't become righteous because the Jews taught her righteousness. His mother became righteous because he belonged to a people that had no place in Israel. And they had nothing to turn to but Almighty G-d. So, Jesus's mother being a sign, a symbol of the poor people, the rejected people, he became the holiest of all. Do you understand?
All right. So, Jesus was born of that woman, that rejected woman, that woman that had no real husband, is that right? Woman that was accused of fornication and adultery, because nobody would own her purity, is that right? All Praises to Allah. Okay. So, if you want to see Christ, see yourself. They laughed at Christ, mocked Christ. Here is the fool that would be king of the Jews. Let's give him a crown, a crown of thorns. That's what they have done to the masses, to defy the masses of the world. That here are a people that once had a glorious seat in the high places of ancient civilizations, Asia and Africa and the islands of the tropics, let us now give them a crown. A crown of thorns, racism. Jesus Christ, your savior, democracy without a taste of democracy. Christ without a taste of salvation. Let's give him this crown of thorns that pierce into their brains and peel the nerve center. The thorn has needles on it and even so, they had the nerve to stick needles into the brains of the newborn babies, you understand?
So here, this crown of thorns got needles on it that pierce the head and go into the nerve center and numb the brain. Give them a crown of thorns. Laugh at us. Say, "Here is the king, look at the king." Is that right? There, they put on his head, a crown of thorns and then they didn't just let the thorns take place on his head, they thrust it into his head. And they show the blood coming out of his head. We think it means blood, doesn't mean blood. It means your common sense. They place this on your head, the hypocritical, deceitful teachings of freedom and salvation through faith and the Trinity. And this thing piercing into your mind kills your brain and make you bleed out all your common senses. You think I'm joking? Do you think I'm just talking to charm you or to interest you? Go get any authority on the Bible and I will do it this evening. If you're tired, I'll stay here by myself on the floor, and just let one man stay here to record it. And I will prove to you before the preacher, before a Bishop, before a Pope, before a Rabbi, if Jesus could stand right here himself and disagree with me, I would make him drink that, that I speak the truth.
Allahu Akbar. I'm not speaking from guess work, I'm a scientist. I've tested my findings by every rule of scientific investigation. And I've also received a word from Heaven, saying it is done. So, you can play if you want to, I'm not playing. And if just a handful of people follow me in sincerity, we are going to shake this world up and down and going to bring back milk, whole milk. Milk that you see cream on top of. We going to keep on shaking that milk until time seasons and ages it and produce butter, then we going to take the butter and set a match to it and turn the milk into fire and light the world. You see how you can get fire out of milk? Get milk and shake it, let it sit long enough and shake it until you get butter, then take a match and put to the butter, brother, and that milk will burst into flames and light the dark area. Is that right? Well, see men like Moses, he wanted to lead the people to that kind of milk. They wanted to drink fresh milk.
But Moses was talking about something that had to happen over a period of time. It had to undergo the right process. I'm talking about aged milk that can be shook up and produce butter and the butter can be used to light the fire or to serve as a lamp, giving light, is that right? All right. I got to leave you now, it's after 3:00. We don't want to hold you here any longer. I'm going to conclude this by bringing it up to the present time. This old world leadership got weak and people on the lower levels of society begin to see the defects in the heavens of the wicked world. Just know that that heaven wasn't as shining and as pure it looked to be. And they began to question the knowledge up high.
Before they begin to suspect the knowledge was wrong, men without great knowledge just couldn't accept the conduct of a world that claimed to be right and was behaving as though it knew nothing of any righteousness at all. The honorable Frederick Douglas, in his one his addresses and perhaps you have read it in Jet magazine, indicted the western leadership, America with such clear, clean-cut words that he brought Congress, even from their ranks to support the movement for justice. Is that right? Powerful and eloquent oracle.
Powerful and eloquent orator, brave man, Fredrick Douglas. But before his time, there was Ned Turner, Black man that couldn't understand a society looking so beautiful in the face and being so cruel in its' kicks. Kicking him down in the dirt, stuffing him under the ground. So, he rose up not being able to define the disease or to diagnose the disease in the mind of the Western the society. But he just knew that what they preached didn't agree with their actions and rose in rebelled. Lost his life and a few lives of his slave brothers, but he showed them a mark, a pain in the conscience of the beast we call Western Civilization. Is that right?
Behind him others rose. Fredrick Douglas with his preachings, he awoke the conscience of American Caucasians, Is that right? But before he awoke enough conscience, there was a fanatical Caucasian John Brown who read the Bible and he couldn't reconcile what was going on with the teaching of the Bible. So, John Brown, a fanatical Caucasian got on his horse and got him an army and went after the slave masters, Is that right? Called on our leadership, "Where did this come from? Where did Fredrick Douglas get his leadership from? Who led him? Who mentioned John Brown? Who mentioned Nat Turner? All praise is due to Allah.
Even before Fredrick Douglas, where was a man called David Walker. Is that right? A slave up North, had enjoyed no freedom, but right before Fredrick Douglas fought, but right behind him, I believe David Walker was after Fredrick Douglas, but he was back in the days of slavery, slavery was still in the South. David Walker preached and he did the book called The David Walker Appeal and read those appeals that he made to the conscience of this artificial mentality. You will bear me witness, that that mans preaching compares with the preaching of the Prophets such as Jeremiah, Daniel, Ezekiel. Those men didn't preach with any more spiritual and moral effectiveness than did David Walker. That man preached, I'm telling you, and his words hit home. But do we know of any Prophet of the Bilalians in America? No.
That man out preached the Prophets of Israel. But didn't get one single Bilalian to say this is our Prophet. Why? Because he was fairly destroyed, fairly dead, completely insensitive. Five senses gone. Is that right? Putting that Christianity on our heads. Loaded with deception, Loaded with lies and deceit. Killing our five senses. So, we couldn't respond to any great leader. Behind them came Dubois, Marcus Garvey, great men that stepped in the cause of the dignity of the Bilalian people in America, Is that right? Great men, great orators. But how much support did they get from us? We followed them as long as there was a sizable number of Caucasians praising them. But as soon as the Caucasians stopped saying he was great, we forgot all about the greatness of our great hero. Is that right?
Couldn't get any leadership in America could we? No, because the whole atmosphere all of the thoughts in the air, is designed for your mind to breath in the destruction that will pause undermine the development of strong leadership. You don't want no leadership, all you want is Jesus. Somebody you can't identify with, somebody you can't touch, you can't walk with. You can go and see him and if you'll walk with the world in spite of a dead leader, bygone leader. Our people don't have any governmental lies in their body, that's all they can do is identify with their dead leader.
In the history of our people, the only successful man has really been myself. I'm the only one that has been successful in coming up, with no support, and keeping the forces intact. Even the leadership. Well you may say, "Well, didn't your father do it?" No. When Mr. Fard left my father, his movement went down to almost nothing. 10 years passed, nothing. 20 years passed, nothing. It took him almost until 1948 to get something started again. But Almighty Allah blessed me with the knowledge of the tricks that goes on in this world. Not just on a physical plane, but on a spiritual plane.
And way up there where the fire is, where the light of the Sun is. He showed me the devil climb all the way up to the Sun, showed me how he go up to the Sun and bring down fire down from Heaven. So, he couldn't destroy this, didn't know how to come at me. Heard me speak and said, "What in the world has happened overnight? The man don't sound like Elijah, don't sound like Moses. Sound something like Jesus. Has Jesus returned?" Yes he has, in full force.
All Praise is due to Allah. But our great heroes came up and as long as they could attract the attention of the Caucasian, we were attracted. But as soon as the world forgot them, we buried our leader. All Praise is due to Allah, for this day and time. Nobel Drew Ali turned people away from the Christian church, turned them away from the Christian culture, turned them towards Morocco. Is that right? But how successful he was? As soon as the Caucasian attacked him, majority of our people turned their backs on him. They are stronger now than they've ever been.
And along came the silk peddler, that old strange Arab that didn't act like no Arab. And certainly, didn't act like any Western Caucasian person, but looked like a Caucasian and used names, titles, and expressions, and symbols, and names of Arab people. But taught something that looked totally different. Is that right? Teaching under the cover of darkness. Teaching under the cover of symbolism and left a heavy symbolic message. And he knew just where to put it. He didn't give it to the political minded Bilalian, or to the academic minded Bilalian. He gave it to those Southern Baptist Bilalians, whose only knowledge was symbolism. Because you know, the preacher, he's preached so much symbolism until he forgets him problems sometimes. And just starts saying... You see, that preacher, he talked so much code language and so sometimes he get out of touch with his code and he starts going into his own code.
So, Master Fard knew where to bring his symbolism. He brought it to the Baptists, the son of a Baptist preacher, who was dissatisfied with the leadership of his father. Is that right? There wouldn't be so much concern about changing the teachings of Christ. Or changing in the teaching of the Old Testament. He wouldn't care because he never accepted it anyway, he had his own ideas about the book. Is that right? So, Master Fard searched all over the streets of Detroit and elsewhere and finally found Elijah Poole. And he dropped that heavy symbolism on Elijah Poole and Elijah Poole picked up that pool stick and man he went to shooting. And I'm telling you he started putting balls in their pockets. Man, I'm telling you, that man could sure put the balls in the pocket.
And before he passed, he said, "Well there ain't no more balls to shoot off the table, I guess Elijah is the winner." Is that right? I don't know how many of us has heard about him, but there's also a man in this part of history called Franz Fanon. Not of America, but a bad hero, great hero, for our cause. Stood up with a sharp knife and I'm telling you, he really cut the fat off white supremacy, of European domination of the so called colored world, and made efforts to pull the elements of the society together. Franz Fanon, great Black man. All of these Black great men came. Jomo Kenyatta and Patrice Lumumba. Is that right?
So, we see that we have had light, but that light hasn't been able to deliver itself out of the womb. If anything in this world that detected that there was light there to be developed, to deliver a manchild for the Bilalians of the world, he would do something to make an abortion. Is that right? But All Praise is due to Allah. Along came Elijah Muhammad, a man that was put onto the tricks of the Caucasian mind. And had faith enough in his teacher, and in the teachings that he taught to hold onto the formula for darkness to work. If the formula don't produce today, hold on to it.
And in the 1930's, the formula did not produce for Elijah Muhammad. In the 1940's, the formula did not produce for Honorable Elijah Muhammad. Even in the 1950's the formula didn't produce for the Honorable Elijah Muhammad, am I correct? But in the '60s, man, oh man, that formula started to produce for the Honorable Elijah Muhammad. Look how long that man had faith in his teacher. Why did he have faith in his teacher? Because his teacher was wise, his teacher saw that the strongest thing in America among the Bilalian people was Jesus. So, his teacher told him that, "I am Jesus." And Elijah Muhammad accepted Master Fard as Jesus. There was a place in his heart for Jesus. There was a place for every so called Negro's heart in America for Jesus.
So, Master Fard said, "I am Jesus."
And Honorable Elijah opened up his heart and said, "You must be Jesus, because you sound like what I've been looking for, and what I've been thinking and what I've been feeling. I can follow you. I couldn't follow my father, but I can follow you, Master Fard."
So, Elijah came out of his fiery garments, with violence and fiery talk. Turning the altars into fire. The sweet waters of Scripture into fire. Is that right? Challenging the false Prophets of the church, raising a lot of hell. Telling Jezebel, "Come on out of your hiding place, woman. You wicked, filthy, no good, shameful thing. Stop hiding behind your aristocracy and come on out here and let the world see your shame." Is that right?
The Honorable Elijah Muhammad. Fiery tongued, mean preacher. Is that right? I want to let you go, but we have to drive this point on home. Well, he came and he was kind of... well, uncivilized. That Elijah of the Book brother, he was a little uncivilized, wasn't he? He told his men, I think, to go cut the heads of the false Prophets, didn't he? After defeating them, he wasn't satisfied, the man wanted more blood. "Cut their heads off." He was kind of savage, you know. But the Book says before the awful and dreadful day of the Lord, Elijah must come. Is that right? See, if you was having an awful and dreadful time, somebody has to rise up in the spirit of that awful and dreadful time and start doing some awful and dreadful things to awake the mind of that awful and dreadful leadership. This was Elijah. The Book said Elijah must first come. Is that right? All Praise is due to Allah.
But after Elijah comes Christ. Is that right? All right. And Christ, he's civilized. He don't flood the rostrum. Elijah said, "Throw bales of water on the pulpit, I'm going to turn it into fire." Christ didn't come like that. Christ came walking in quietly. Is that right? Came in like the quietness of a tornado that's coming. Come in quietly, everything is so quiet, and all of a sudden there's thunder and lightning. Christ didn't do it, his presence did it. Is that right? Christ didn't bring down no thunder and lightning, he wasn't loud, he wasn't flashy. Christ was quiet. Is that right? But his quietness caused a disturbance in the atmosphere that was like the quietness before the storm. So, his very presence brought about thunder and lightning, and the shaking up of things. Is that right? All Praises is due to Allah.
The people said, "Oh, this is the end. The Nation of Islam is getting ready to go down. That new leader, he's reversing everything his father taught. He's not politically wise. He doesn't know how to pick up the tools of his father and get his people's confidence before doing those strange things."
They didn't know that a new man was on the scene. Is that right? That hadn't been taught like you. The Honorable Elijah Muhammad said, "The one that come after me will be a new man. And the one that succeeds Master Fard will be a new man and he will do all things in accordance with his own knowledge. And he won't accept anything of the old. He will change everything and build a totally new world." Is that right?
All Praise is due to Allah. I wasn't looking for any man to join me. I was looking for empty vessels to put men into. And I found a lot of them in the house of Elijah, because his job wasn't to put men into empty vessels. His job was to pour out of the vessel that pollution that had been put into them. Is that right? Look what happened now, after so many great leaders let the sign of their life known in the womb by pushing, stuffing their foot into the side of the stomach. You know, that baby when it's in the womb and it's ready to come out, man, sometime it hit that woman's belly so hard you see his elbows jutting out. Is that right? Pressing and saying, "Get me out of here, I wanna get out of here. It's time to come out."
But we had leaders like that, that were hitting and just hitting the sides of the womb, the belly of this society and making their presence known. We couldn't see them. Leadership hadn't been established yet. But we saw that there was something in there that was awfully strong. Look how long J.A Rogers worked with the pen. Look how long he's appealed to the minds of our people. All Praise is due to Allah. And many others. Hammurabi, used to go all over the East Coast, all in the Mid-West. With his films and his lectures, trying to bring the birth of Bilalian leadership. Is that right? All of a sudden, G-d began to give help from within and without. We had our John Browns to help us, we had the Quakers and others, with a few friends in government. And the seasons changed. A new season came upon the Earth. And the mighty, mighty of the world didn't look so mighty, mighty anymore. That old Russian Bear rose up and began producing and made himself look as strong in producing miracles as the Western leadership.
They brought down fire down from Heaven of physical science. Russia did too. So Bilalian people began to lose some of the hypnotism that was over them. Saying, "Maybe this magician is not so powerful after all. There's somebody else who is able to work wonders." So, the rise of Russia began bringing some kind of balance to the world's mind. Is that right? The world's mind was navigating all towards Europe, Britain, and America. But when Russia got as powerful as she became, all the minds began to kind of balance. So, we have to look at these things. Maybe Christ is not the strength of America, because Russia does not have Christ. Is that right?
So, it caused people to lose some of their attachment, do you understand? And began to open their ear to outsiders. Then something else developed that was also powerful. The United Nations began to change the look of its face. We already had been touched by the history of Ethiopia. Is that right? We had been inspired a little bit by the presence of Haile Selassie. All of a sudden now here is Egypt, Sudan, Nigeria, Ghana, all of these countries now coming into the United Nations taking its seat at the high level of political importance. Is that right?
So, this began to give us a little more courage. Oh yeah, I do believe a Black child can live, I do believe a Black man can stand on his own feet, I do believe a Black woman can hold her own baby in her arms. Is that right? We began to have some faith, we began to see signs that there was not just Tarzan and jungles, rag wearing, naked Africans, but there was Tarzan, and old mighty King Kong. Is that right? But King Kong just didn't have his thing together. So, we saw that he was mighty, he was coming back on the scene showing his muscles. Isn't that right. And along came an injection of a new brain.
And all of sudden now, we've taken on a new mind and a new mentality and we don't fear anything. We don't look anywhere for direction. We don't trust any nation to save us. The Lost Found Nation of Islam trusts itself to save itself. Where is that happening in the history of our people? There's people that have been brought together in strong unity, with leadership that they strongly support. And now tell the world, boldly and readily. We don't take our time saying it, we ready to tell them right now. Tell them that we have our world, we have our leadership, we have our destiny, we have our Book, we have our philosophy and ideology, we have our doctor of philosophy and ideology, we have our research scientists, we are not looking to the old world for anything. Only thing we want the whole world to do is look at us and see its' own salvation. Is that right? All Praise is due to Allah.
So, over a period of time, a land that boasted of a democratic leadership failed and lived to see the day come that it actually had no leadership. Where is the leadership in America? America has no leadership. There's Ford, there's Reagan, there's Carter, but where is the leadership? We hope that maybe leadership will come, maybe one of these men will take on a new mind and begin to really move to do something. One thing we can give credit to and that is the fact that the leadership in America, the President, has not been so quick to do things blindly. When you have leadership that's good. It's better not to have any leadership than to have destructive leadership.
So, it shows you that American leadership has taken on a new kind of thinking. It used to act as if its brain had come out, making all kinds of brash, caustic statements condemning people, talking about what it's going to do. You know, look behind you in history. You know how wild and reckless this government was. But this government has sobered during the late years. And because it has sobered, we don't have any more of the old leadership. And thank Allah for that.
So don't think the spirit of absence of leadership is a bad sign. Brothers and sisters, this is a good sign. It's a sign that America, the West, has awakened and realized that it can't lead like it used to lead. And it just has to wait for something to develop and that is worthy to sit on the throne. Until then, they just have to suffer and put up with all of this social problems, political problems and whatnot. But at this day in time, where there is no strong leadership in the West, look where strong leadership is. Strong leadership is where they thought that there would never be any hope of any kind of leadership. Strong leadership is among the ex-slaves. Is that right? All Praise is due to Allah.
Don't you see how Almighty G-d has turned the wheel in favor of the rejected and has given us the path of Heaven. At such a strength that Heaven has held and has denied Earth that strength. Almighty G-d has turned the wheel and brought this place down to us and has carried our weaknesses up to them. Isn't that justice?
This 4th of July should be remembered by us as the birthday of the United States of America. I would say today America is 2 years old. No, I'm not making fun, I'm praising America, but yesterday it was 2 months old. Laying on her back, crying and hollering, dirtying up herself, eating and slobbing over herself, urinating and defecating all over herself. Kick her feet and hands up in the air, instead of walking on her feet and using her hands. But today America is 2 years old. A baby two years old don't need to suck the titty anymore. A baby that's 2 years old can stand on their own feet. Is that right? A baby that's two years old also learns to speak with their own tongue. Look how long America has been depending on the feet of Europe. And Jerusalem. The Pope and the Synagogue. Look how long America has been using the tongue of the Pope and the Rabbi. So, America can't talk so well today, but thank G-d Almighty that America is about ready to start speaking with her tongue and walk on own feet and manage her own life. Is that right?
So, 2 years old is a great thing, a great sign that America maybe becoming independent for the first time in its history. All of the history behind it, it wasn't independent. They had taken up the tools of the European, the tools of slavery, the tools of enslavement. Is that right? The tools of a hypocritical democracy, the tools of Christianity, the tools of trust in the Rabbi, powerful behind the scenes. But today, I think America is ready to sever this connection, cut this navel cord and start doing something on its' own. We haven't had American leadership, we've had European and Jerusalem leadership.
Now it's time for America to have American leadership and I believe America is going to have American leadership. I see signs of it in the government, and certainly if the government doesn't come around, there's enough signs of it in the public to bring the government around. The government is rising up by its' own actions so far to see the signs of time and move in the right direction. All Praise is due to Allah. So, I say we can celebrate this 4th of July. Let us celebrate it in the spirit of hope. Let's trust in Allah to continue as He has done in the past to turn Earth, Water, Air and Fire, public and government, to manifest His great plan, so that the poor will have a leader. We have a leader today, brothers and sisters. Not just in myself, but in this new mind that's coming into form, into life and into form all over the world. We have leadership now. The masses are not without hope, we're not without leadership, we have leadership in the world today. It's growing but it's leadership. And if all the forces of this mind new mind die, don't worry, the force of that mind here in the Chief Minister in The Nation of Islam is going to live until the whole world has been made right again.
Brothers and sisters, you have sacrificed today to hear me out. May Allah reward you for your sacrifice, for disciplining yourself and bringing pain to your body. And Allah, He knows how to make suffering turn into pleasure. So don't think it was bad, it wasn't even bad for your physical body. After today your physical body is going to be stronger and your mind much stronger. And I greet you in peace. Let us keep faith and work hard to preserve leadership, don't listen to the backsliders, don't listen to the foot draggers. Don't listen to the rebellious modern day Hebrews, who say, "What's next?" Where is he going from here? If we don't go nowhere from here we'll be in heaven for the rest of our lives. As Salaam Alaikum.
All Praise Be to Allah. That's him. As Salaam Alaikum. Brothers and sisters we have a few announcements. Stop the clock. We have a few announcements that we would like to read quickly. First we'd like you to work with us on the dismissal. After the closing prayer, our guest will be the first to pick up there shoes. We have somebody here with two pair of legs? Two pair of shoes. We'd like you to stand up while I'm making the announcements, okay.
Okay, brothers and sisters while you're standing, we're going to read these announcements. We will definitely let you know about the dinner that the Honorable Warith Deen Mohammed will be at to be held immediately upon dismissal. That will be held at the Ephraim Bahar Center and all of the dining rooms will be occupied. We set up special dining seats on the patio and the parking lot, all available for the children. All the pioneers, we have two rooms set aside for them that are free of charge.
We are making one request of you and that's please do not block the parking paths at the Center. So please when you get your car, move out. The tickets for the dinner will be going on sale at the cash register stations at the Center. On the menu we have barbecue chicken, barbecue ribs, potato salad, carrot cake, dinner rolls.
I would like to personally thank the following people who worked all night to make the dinner meals. Sister Sophia Akram, Sister Mariam Shabazz, Sister Roberta Mohammed and Sister Gloria Rahman. And the brothers who I want to thank Brother Omar, Henry Omar for all of the dinners. The pioneer's dinners, the alumni's dinner and any event that we have given here they have put there all into it to make sure that they are successful. I want to thank Henry Omar, Brother Oscar Mohammed, Brother Robert Sherry, Brother Karim Lauro, Brother Abdul Mohammed, Brother Efren Abdullah, Brother Bobby X, Brother Kalid Amin, Brother Isaac 9X, Brother Sayid Omar, Brother Jeffrey Mahmoud, Brother Rahim, Brother Donald 6X and Brother A. Aquil. I want to thank them. Let's give them all a round of applause. Allahu Akbar. Upon dismissal, once Brother Darnell Karim concludes the prayer, we would like for all of our guest to leave first.
Right behind us our guest we want to hold all of the Muslims behind just for few minutes. Will let our guest be dismissed and registered Muslims remain behind. Now, for our brothers and sisters who are with us for the first time on your way in, you received what is called the Book of Life card, the acceptance card. Many of you who are here for your first time if you have the card, could you hold hand up so that we can recognize you. How many of you are here for the first time? Just hold your hands right up.
Okay. Those of you who are here for the first time on your way in you received this card from the Secretary. If you heard the Honorable Warith Deen Mohammed this afternoon and I know you heard him if you can hear. And if you desire to become a part of the Nation of Islam or follower of the Honorable Warith Deen Mohammed and we have blessed that he said to have leadership in America today and if you have leadership and just walk around that leadership, then you'll end up with no light and he represents the light today, the light of leadership for our community.
So, if you want to become a part of that Body-Christ, The Nation of Islam, we'd like to give us your signature on this card. Sign it, fill out the rest of the information. If you need a pen or pencil, raise your hand, one of the Secretary's will come right over to you, give you a pen or pencil, put in the information give the secretary back the card and you'll become a part of the Nation of Islam.
Starting this Wednesday night here at the Mosque, we're going to have orientation classes and they start at 7:00. Orientation class will be half an hour. That's for all of the new brothers and sisters. If you became a part of the Nation of Islam in the last 30 days, be out Wednesday night for orientation class. Sisters have an orientation class on Saturday afternoon. I have to get the time. Can I get the time from one of the Sisters? We have somebody back here that knows the time?
Okay, the Sisters class is on Saturday afternoon. For our new sisters you can inquire with one of the hostess on your way out. But if you would like to become a part of the Nation of Islam, please sign the card. Brother Secretary, would you please pick up the card and hold hand up and someone will pick up your card. Please sign it before you hand it over to one of the secretary. Thank you and we want to extend an invitation for you to be with us Wednesday night at 7:00, Friday at 7:00 and next Sunday at 1:00 PM. At this time we'd like to bring forth Brother Darnell Karim, who will say the closing prayer. All registered Muslims remain behind. Yes sir?
Okay. Can we hold just one second. Now brothers and sisters, on this public collection that's coming up as the basket goes down will you put your money in it and move the basket quickly as possible. We'd like to pick up a public donation to help in the cause of Al-Islam, thank you very much.
And while we're taking the public donation, any of the brothers and sisters who are here for the first time, it costs you nothing to become a Muslim. You don't pay. This is your home. And if you would like to accept the teaching of the Honorable Warith Deen Mohammed make that decision today. Don't be an indecisive like America. Be decisive and make a decision become a follower of the Honorable Warith Deen Mohammed. And if you made that decision and you’re waiting for one of the secretary's to pick up the card, please hold your hand up. I want to thank you for those of you who are able to give. Thank you and may Allah bless your for whatever you are able to give in the cause of charity.
And if we can get as many of those donation receptacles moving as quickly as possible to speed the donation up.
Again for those brothers and sisters who are here for the first time all you have to do is hold your hand up. There's one over here to my right Brother Secretary. We're working on a system so you won't spend much time picking up your shoes but we'll develop that as the meetings go on. But I thank The Honorable Warith Deen Mohammed for blessing us to be with us today. I mean he was cooking today. He was on it today. Allahu Akbar! When you go out the visitors will be leaving first. But take your time on your shoes because we have to realize everyone has to pick their shoes up and then put them on. So, when the Muslims are dismissing, we may start dismissing you two and three rows at a time and give the people time to get their shoes and put them on. So, thank you. We're finished with the collections. Brother Darnell Karim, the closing prayer.
Audhu Bilahi Mina Shaitan Ar Rajim. Bismillah A Rahama, Nir Raheem. Alahamduillahi Raabil Al=Amin, Ar Rahama Nir Raheem Malik Yauwm id deen. Iyaka Na'abudu Wa Iyaka Nastaeen. Ihdina Siratal Mustaqeem. Siratal Ladheena An Amta Alahim Ghareel Magdoobi Alahim Wa Lad Daaleen.Ameen.
In the Name of Allah, Most Gracious, Most Merciful. Praise be to G-d, Cherisher and Sustainer of the Worlds, Most Gracious, Most Merciful Master of the Day of Judgment. Thee do we worship and Thine aid we seek. Show us the straight way. The way of those on Whom Thou has bestowed Thy Grace. Those whose portion is not wrath. And who go not astray. Ameen.
As you know, the hours have changed. So, the class is from 7-8. And on Sunday from 1-3. And I know that I kept you over the hour but being that this is Independence Day, I am quite sure that we can handle it.
At the Ephraim Bahar Center, we are having dinners over there. I hope we can all come and celebrate two Independence Days. The Independence of American and the Independence of this community. As you know, the old lessons teach us that it was on July 4th, 1930 that Master Fard appeared in the black community. Dinners will be two dollars for adults and one dollar for children. And our elderly people, those that have their senior cards, even those that don't have it, don’t' worry about it as we know you anyway.
I understand that there was an office set up temporarily by the brothers representing the government in Guyana to recruit people to go there and work. Now I want you to know that that plan did not come from us. We have nothing to do with it. That came from the people of Guyana. We're not responsible for it. So, if you're not satisfied over here don't blame us. We don't have anything to do with it. I can't go to Guyana myself and unless it's for a visit. We got enough that's happening in America for me. We're having another spiritual Jubilee in Atlanta, Georgia. I think they call it the Peachtree State. Beautiful Atlanta. On the 4th Sunday of August. August 22nd. The 4th Sunday of August. This will be the Sunday before the beginning of the fasting month of Ramadan. We are having an interfaith meeting if you care to join us. In Atlanta a month before Ramadan The spirit of Ramadan should already be moving in us. I know I can't wait. Every season Ramadan comes around, I don't even have to look at the calendar. I feel it coming. It builds on me, you know. I am anxious for it because many blessings come out of the fast month.
As you know, we use to have classes. Mens class, women’s classes. FOI and MGT classes. Muslim Girls Training and General Civilization classes. But we have discontinued all classes. I understand that in other Mosques throughout the Nation, there are some activities still going on or still some interest in these activities. But when we say no more classes, that's it.
We are not a people who do as do as we want to do, we are people who do things together and when the headquarters say no more classes, no more classes. For anyone who is conducting these classes, they're conducting them without the support and against the wishes of the headquarters. Against the wishes of myself and the National staff. And all of our National Representatives.
We are forming a committee for the sisters. A charity committee. A fundraising committee. Sisters, they know how to support worthwhile charities. They know how to give support to worthwhile charities. So we want the sisters to form a committee under the committees that are already established. Perhaps under the childcare committee or the Ways and Means committee. We also want them to form a class to instruct the new members the proper way to prepare Muslim food and other good habits in the Muslim home. To establish this committee under the childcare committee. And the committee to establish proper homes can come under these other committees. That way they can work with the mothers and the children. Under these committees, we want to have a unified Nation of Islam. But if we set up separate committees, we will once again be divided.
I will now read to you a statement here that will help, I believe, give a picture to you or convey a picture to your mind of the kind of sisters activities that we would love to see in our society. Activities outside of this framework, the sisters will have to join, if there is a need for adult education. Here in Chicago we have an adult education school. A very good adult education school, headed by Dr Abdul Alim Shabazz. In other Mosques, I don't think there is an adult education school. There might be some classes available. For those who want adult education classes, you should go where there are adult education classes available. The Mosque cannot afford more than it's uhhh...Establish itself with more than it can afford.
If you want more then go out by yourself. Don't organize people in the Mosque. Because our plans are to take everybody into consideration. What we're planning we're looking at everybody. Looking at every department and looking at all the brothers and sisters, we're looking at all the responsibilities that the Nation has. But if you plan outside of our planning, you're not seeing the whole picture. And you're going to interfere with some of our National operations. And if you do that you're hurting yourself. Because all our plans are designed to give the greatest amount of benefits. They want all of us to benefit and the benefit in the greatest amount. The greatest concern is for survival and leadership in the home.
Now they want to take your women away from the home. They will make women forget about the responsibilities to raise family, children, take care of the home. To help the father preserve the life that has come from both the mother and father. They think that the society should take care of this responsibility. That the husband ought to put on an apron or a dress and get a needle or a sewing outfit and be the woman at home. This is the sissified camp that wants to make our society all females. Society needs strong females and strong males. If our women become masculine and our men become feminine, they are trying to change the roles. And these roles didn't come about in one night, in one year or in one generation. Not even in one thousand years. The masculine role and the feminine role has been established over thousands of years. By time and by societies demands on the male and female. In fact, it's the woman’s own physiological make up, having to have babies. Her nature is cut out for that. She's designed by the Creator for that. It's her own physical makeup of hers that says what kind of role she is going to have in the world.
The only way we can change that is we have some type of artificial mothers around here to give birth for the women so they don't have to be tied up for 9 months. The majority of the women are not going to be following these things talking about we don't want to stay home, we don't want to be mothers. The majority of the women are going to remain women. Is that right? Alright so since it's going to remain this way we have to respect each other in our natural roles. The roles that Almighty G-d has given to us naturally. Children need leadership from parents. Both parents. Women have been more in touch with the children. Therefore they have been more in touch with their nature then men. Especially in the Western world. Outside of Western society, I think the case is different. But in the Western society, the men are driven away from the home. You can work and come back and live with your wife. Or live with your children for a couple of hours. But the Western mind, the man's mind has been conditioned, the woman's mind has been conditioned to accept that you have no place in the home. You come there, you look at TV. Look at the newspaper. Do anything but don't take no part in this home. Right? Yes. This is the way you feel. Most of you won't pick up a dishrag and wash a dish. Won't pick up a broom and sweep the floor. "Woman, that's your job. Won't put clothes in the washer machine. "Woman, that's your job."
And the woman won't correct your child. "Man, that's your job. Ain't you a man? Why won't you tell him what to do." Yes. So, the woman giving the man her job and the man not helping at all. Just bringing in the money. And the TV and newspaper ads telling the wife how to spend his money. Now we can correct all this but we have to pull together.
The woman's identity is her motherhood. I want you to hear this. The woman's identity is her motherhood. What we need to do is take a new look at the importance of the mother role in the society. Whether you have a child or not sister, you are a mother. The little girl five years old is a mother. How many of you have noticed your little children? Haven't you noticed those little girls? They’re mothers. They’re born mothers. They’re not fathers unless something wrong has happened in the house. Their mothers.
The mother function in women is her natural design, physical design, social design. The mother attribute is the strongest attribute the society has. There is no attribute more valuable then the woman attribute. The woman attribute as mother. The father attribute is not as valuable. Because of the mother nature, the mothers natural instinct, and the evolution of the rise of this nation allows the woman is to be seen as the higher form of civilization. Not just for their families inside their homes, but for the block they live on. For the community they live in. For the nation they live under or in. And for the world we all live in. Women should be mothers. The problem with the world today is the loss of this instinctive leadership. Mothers should be concerned about the health and welfare of the human life. Today’s leadership needs strong mothers. Sisters, stop thinking for brothers. They won't tell you, but I'll tell you. Manhood needs strong motherhood.
The home life, the father, the mother, the children in the relationship, these are the most important relationships for the world and society. They set the pattern for the higher society and the higher world order. Women should be active as leaders in the community. But they should think from motherhood. They should act out of and from motherhood. You think Presidents don't need motherhood? Presidents need motherhood. The community needs the presence of women. We need to see women present everywhere we go. When we come home we need to see the strong presence of motherhood. When we go out into the streets we need to see the presence of a strong mother image. When we go out in the streets we see the presence of an almost forty eight years old acting like a twelve year old in the street. Want to know what's wrong with the world Women’s Lib? Listen to the Chief Minister.
The community needs the presence of women. Women should push for those things that make for a better home life. Those things don't stop where the front gate stops. Those things go on out into the broader community. They go all the way around the world. Fight against apathy in the community. Apathy is the absence of feeling for each other. The absence of feeling for the terrible things that are happening in the world. Don't just think the role of male is superior. And the role of master and the role of the female or the mother is inferior. That shows you what an artificial has done for the thinking of males and females in the world. If a man goes out and works eight hours and whether he has a child or not he brings that money home and wants to see that woman as comfortable and happy as he is, how is he a slave? Just because he is being true to him. Does she have to go out and give herself to every other man to be free? Can't she be true to him and be free? Yes. If she loves to cook his food and loves to see him happy and he loves to see her well dressed and fed too? That's equality, that's not master and slave.
That's a divine partnership. The Holy Qur'an teaches us to revere and respect and honor the ties, the family ties. The relationships of man and wife, husband and wife relationship. Father and parent and children relationship. We are to honor these ties, respect these things, hold them very dear. Preserve them. The reason why we are destroyed in the society is because our family strength has been destroyed. Don't let anyone influence you with those dark suggestions. Reject them. We are going to stick together.
When my wife is not filled with energy, all pepped up ready for her job, I help her. I am not telling you brothers how to live your life, I am telling you what I do. I help her. I bathe the children, I dress the children, I feed the children, I cook. Maybe you can't do these things but I do it. I try to be patient with them, I try to understand them. This is the way you have to live together. If you want to take and not give anything, you should live by yourself. And let me tell you sister. Any brother that won't let you live with dignity you should leave him. And let me tell you brother. If any sister won't let you live with dignity, you should leave her. Divorce is a hated thing in Islam. But we would be better off with being single, even committing fornication and adultery, then we are today with these adulterated and fornicated homes. Completely out of order. Wife going one way, husband going the other. Children being torn apart in their hearts and minds. Just ripping their hearts and minds apart. That's more cruel than adultery and fornication. You will be better off living alone. Now don't think you're not going to get punished if you commit adultery and fornication. You're still going to be punished. But I'm telling you what's better than what they have here in the West. The life that these people have here in the West is the most corrupt life. It's the most poisonous life. It's the weakest family life that you can find anywhere. The savages in the jungle that have no marriage ceremony, their living better lives then the people in so called civilized America.
It's a shame what they’re doing. In fact, makes me feel like getting an army together and just go out and start killing people outright. I see how revolutions start in China and other places. The soldiers come and say, "Didn't you hear, you're not supposed to be doing this, boom, boom, boom and that's it. I could see how that happens. A man who loves the world and loves human life and see what's happening to the wives and the husband. I'm telling you, it's no wonder it happened.
So, let us love each other and care for each other. And share the burden of the home with each other. The man carry a part of it and the woman carry a part of it. This old Western society has our women thinking that they are some kind of peacock that's supposed to be groomed by the male. Oiled down and groomed up by the male. Throwing flowers on the bed, or you're supposed to bring her breakfast, order her food from the restaurant. Call the man and have them deliver some pizza, or some chicken you know. And then make your salat to her at night before you go to bed. Yes, some women are like that. The fault is not all the man's. Some of you women want to be worshipped. Just like a lot of you brothers want to be worshipped. Muslims have only One G-d, and that's the Creator of the heavens and the earth.
Brothers and sisters, let us learn and accept that life is about give and take. Let us live together, love each other, work with each other and work for the Nation. Some of your women, they get a cold, get on their period, coughing, nose running. Brother don't see anything wrong with the woman." Where my dinner at? How come you won't take her somewhere and get some care for her? How come you don't ask her can you take her shoe off and soak her foot? How come you won't get a napkin and wipe her nose off? They come on these periods so regularly until you can almost sense when they coming on one. And you know their irritated and the vibe around the house changes. So, we shouldn’t expect them to act the same way as when her period is not on. Comfort her and let her know you sympathize with her. We have to love each other and sacrifice for each other.
I also understand that brothers in some of the Mosque have already gone ahead with plans to activate the Blight Arrest Pioneer Patrol Unit. The announcement was very clear. It said we would have sixty days to activate it. After thirty days we would come up with a plan and give it to you. But some have jumped the gun, gone ahead and started already. This is serious. Very serious. We have to follow. We are followers. We are not to lead until you are given instructions to lead. Mosques in the following cities are approved to activate the Blight Arrest Pioneer Patrol Unit. Ignorance in our community, we are going to bash it upside the head.
All Mosques other than the following Mosques, must wait until their performance for the past six months has been reviewed. And have been given permission to establish a BAPP Unit. The Mosques that will have these units are the Detroit Mosque, Detroit, Michigan. Chicago, Chicago, Il. Washington Mosque, Washington DC. New York Mosque, New York City. Philadelphia Mosque, Philadelphia Pennsylvania. Atlanta Mosque, Atlanta, Georgia. Cleveland Mosque, Cleveland, Ohio. Newark Mosque, Newark, New Jersey. And Los Angeles Mosque, Los Angeles, California.
Listen brothers, if you lean this way a little bit and lean that way a little bit, move that leg out sometimes, move the other leg out sometimes. See I sat on the floor all day until it got dark. I know how to do it, First time it's real hard. After a few times, you'll see its real easy. About a month you will be well conditioned for the floor sitting.
The purpose of the Blight Arrest Patrol Unit. The purpose of the Pioneers Blight Arrest Patrol Unit is as follows. Number one to enroll and reform real members of the Nation of Islam who have proven by their services that they are no longer contributing to the spread blight of over the community. Number two, to create an active unit or team that will actively serve as a blight deterrent helping to stop the blight and turn things around in our favor. To serve as a blight deterrent in the community for all residents, Muslims and Non-Muslims. Number three finally and most importantly, to be an aid to the community to prevent the ridiculous loss of our tax dollars and community support and to support the community public service departments.
The public service departments are the Police Department, Health and Welfare Department, Hospitals, Fire Department, Alderman and Precinct Captains. If all of us pull together and work together, we can work wonders in our communities. Don't think we are helping ourselves when we are seeing public services as our enemy. This is what they want the people in the community to do. I am talking about the devil minded behind it all. That wicked mind that would like to change things in America and turn things in their direction. Believe me they would love to see the people in opposition to one another. The people at odds with public services. They like to see you hating the Police department, hate the Fire department, hating the health and welfare department. They like to see you doing this because all it's going to do is pull you down. Gonna bring the whole country down. Anytime a country sees more than a million Bilalians are free to choose their own way of life to be the Nation of Islam in the West if they want to, don't think we don't have enemies. And they don't even have to say that. Anytime the American government see that Bilalian people in America now have the same rights as everyone else, don't you think that we don't have enemies. America has enemies, we have enemies.
We see America as a country that needs help from its citizens. We have accepted to be citizens of America. I don't think there are any of you that want to give up your citizenship rights. You want these rights. So, all of us want to be citizens of America. We're going to live here, we're going to support America, we're going to work with America, we're going to be friends of America.
The definition of the Blight Arrest Patrol Unit. The Blight Arrest Pioneer Patrol Unit is a community service unit. A community watch or vigil unit. The Bible says that all the great leaders, especially Jesus in the New Testament, told his followers to watch. You have to keep an eye on your community. You have to keep watch on your community. You have to be aware of what's developing, what's stirring in your own community. And if you don't, before you know it your community will be going down. And there will be people sending it down.
And the community will have units that will conduct their own activities. They are going to help pull this society together. The Blight Arrest Pioneer Patrol is a democratic unit. A unit that is directly tied to the mission and the goal of the Nation of Islam. The Blight Arrest Pioneer Patrol Unit will function as Governmental body. The Honorable Master Elijah Muhammad said that we are a Nation within a Nation. These units are local units and under the supervision of their local Mosque. Each Unit will report to its local Minister. And the local Minister will report to me. But this National office will be for no more than correspondence and will not serve as a dictatorship. We don't want any national police force we want the concern to be local so that these communities can get the best from these units.
You know the tendency in us. We just want to carry a gun and a stick and act out the role of police. They just can't wait to look like whitey in a uniform. Well, you're not going to look like Whitey over here. You're going to look Bilalian and Muslim. Or you're not going to have any looks at all. No activities will start at the Mosque until approval is received from the Chief Minister in writing. We have more completed and detailed information that we will be dispersing to the Mosques that have already been approved here today. Brothers and sisters, I hope that I am being heard in the other Mosques across the Nation. I leave the business department with these instructions. There is but one leadership in the Nation of Islam. And that leadership is the Ministry of the Nation of Islam. And the person representing that Ministry is Chief Minister WD Mohammed. We are not going have a divided community. Our community is united. One leadership, one membership, one body, one mind, one goal. How can we lose? All members functioning together as one body, under one head, responding to the sentiments of one heart. How can they lose?
That sounds like dictatorship. No, this is natural democracy. You've been living under false democracy. A natural democracy is the democracy that has the life and the energy, the will, power, to organize leadership for itself. And once they organize leadership for itself, they serve orderly in the body of that leadership. And everybody is represented in that leadership. Whenever the leadership does not represent you, then you should resist that leadership. You should rebel against that leadership, you should leave that leadership. And if you have to, you should destroy that leadership. As we're shown in the Constitution of the United States of America, if you can't change it by honorable and legal means, then you should abolish it. Is that right? I'll tell you the same thing. This leadership represents your needs. And the heart of this leadership represents your needs and your heart. So, if it stops representing your needs in your heart and in your mind, then you should stop identifying with it. But as long as it serves your needs, then you should serve the head as the hand serves the body.
The hand doesn't serve the body without an order from the head. The hand responds directly to the order of the head. You don't find no members of our body taking orders of other members in the body. Every member in the body take orders from the head. Is that right? The head thinks, sends out messages to the other members and when they get it, they obey. Then Prophet Muhammad said the Ummah of the Muslims is like the body of the human being. All the members work together for the good and the health of the whole body. We have to live this. If we believe it, than let us live it.
I leave you with my instructions. This leadership of the Nation of Islam, though I am in Chicago, but I am just as close to the brother and sister across the planet as I am to the one here in Chicago. This is a leadership that's seen in knowledge and commitment to truth. And not in physical persons.
Your local leaders are not your bosses. They are not to dictate to you how you are to wash your face, how you should spend your own money, how you should raise your own children. They should only echo or repeat the teachings of the Honorable Chief Minister. As long as he's honorable. Is that right? Yes. So, as long as he is telling you what you hear me saying, you should follow them and respect them because the leadership is one and if they accept the leadership then by you accepting it from them there is no division. And there is no bosses all over the country. There is one leadership that we have all voted in or elected in and accepted and if we all accept it we all are equal.
There is no local Captain of the women or the men. There is no division of the local office. The Minister is the leader there, under the Chief Minister. He is responsible for everything that goes on in the community locally. He's responsible for what goes on among the sisters and the brothers. He's responsible for the upkeep and the preservation of Muslim property, Nation property. The consultants are captains who were acting as captains. Now that they no longer have such office, they should just volunteer to go to the Minister and tell the Minister, "We are here and we are well-trained, years of experience has trained us for certain jobs, we offer our services to you, Brother Minister. What can we do to help you?" If you come like a brother, you will be received like brother. And you will have a job. But if the ex-officers of the FOI which was formerly in existence, or the MGT, which was formerly in existence, if they come up and trying to cause confusion and pull the foundation out from under the Mosque or out from under the Minister, they're going to do nothing but put yourself out of a job, put yourself out of our community, you will lose. When the decisions are made here, there made. And there not going to be changed. Don't think you can start no big dissenting group and try and sow dissension, and get you up a body of people and then say "See Minister, what your decision has caused? Don't you want to change it now"?
If my decision causes 99 and 9/10ths of you to fall, I'll take the 1% and we'll keep going up. So don't think you are dealing with a politician that you can put pressure on and get me to change my decision. I don't make decisions until I have pleaded with Allah for months. For years. Or either consulted His instructions that are already explained over a long period of time. And after I'm feeling certain that I'm doing the will of Allah, then I make a decision. You think I'm going to consult after I have spend all that time consulting with the Creator? If you do, you are sadly mistaken. And I'm not speaking to any one department now. I'm speaking to every department.
We are national only in the sense of our national growth. Our natural pattern of growth. We are not national in the sense of a national head, a national office and a central body telling everybody else how to think, how to walk and what to do. Do you understand? We are decentralizing the Nation of Islam. We are leaving businesses....Pretty soon, we are going to have this in effect. We're leaving businesses to individuals. And we're going to use all the powers of the Nation to serve the needs of the individual. Our contacts abroad. Our contacts here. Our knowledge here. Whatever we can get we are going to put all that together and support a brother that shows that he can do good in business. And willing to make the sacrifice to start a good business. We are going to use all our resources to help that brother. We are going to put all of our resources together to help that sister. Now tell me what better society can you have then that?
I have been asked the question "What is going to happen to the Nation of Islam now that you are going out of business"? We're not going out of business, we're going in business. We have been out of business. We have been looking like business but out of business. Now we're doing something to get in business man. That's right. Give us ten years, fifteen years. And we'll put up a tower that is equal in height to Sears Tower. Not with central leadership. Not with dictatorship. With individuals. Individual leadership. Individual muscle. Individual love and affection for the thing that is his.
If I have something that's my business that's closer to me than something that's in Washington. And somebody over there that don't even know my needs, in Washington. Not faced with the same problems I'm faced with here in Chicago. Well, if you have your business here in Chicago, you'll love it more, you' ll do more for it. You won't be hurt by charity because you won't be dependent on charity. You'll be dependent on profits coming into the business. Is that right? Anybody that can't see this big ain't qualified to follow me. Not down this road I'm going.
But if anybody can see what I'm doing, if you're qualified, come on and let's get together. I'm not speaking of things that haven't been successful. I'm speaking from a knowledge of ideas and programs that have already proven themselves. The Nation of Islam has the leadership, we have the spirit, we have the support. If we put all of our resources into operation for the development of a good, for the development of a strength, for the development of a mind. Wherever we find it, it will be on top overnight.
We have a scholarship fund that's building up. This fund is going to pay for the development of intelligence. If a brothers got something on the ball and he doesn't have the means, we on the way brother. We got some ends stacked up there and we're going to pay for his college education if he can't pay for it himself. If you don't have the place, you a good businessman, you got promise. You don't have enough money to buy the location. We as a group are going to buy your way into Real Estate. And we'll trust you to make a profitable business. And trust you to return the money to the Nation when you are able. So, brothers and sisters, don't be discouraged. Don't think because we're leaving one thing that we won't have another. So let' say Allahu Akbar. La Ilaha Il Allah Wa Sharika La. Nothing in creation is equal unto Him. Muhammadan Rasul Allah. Muhammad is the Messenger of Allah. I give you the greetings of Paradise. The greetings of all the righteous people. As Salaam Alaikum.
Speaker
All Praise is due to Allah. All Paise is due to Allah. All Praise is due to Allah. All Praise is due to Allah. Okay. Brothers and sisters, on your dismissal, but we hope that you will be patient and let the senior citizens move out first so that they can start around to the Bahar Center. We thank Allah, and we thank Allah, and we thank Allah for The Honorable Warith Deen Mohammed. And don't forget, brothers and sisters... Too many brothers and sisters at the door at one time would create a problem. So, let the senior citizens, make sure you clear the way and let them go right out.
IWDM:
As-Salamu Alaykum. This is Mosque #2 in Chicago. That concludes our program for today. The next 4th Sunday hookup will be August 22nd, 1976. Unless Otherwise, noted. Jared, As-Salamu Alaykum. Wa Alaikum As Salaam.


