10/00/1976
IWDM Study Library 
Zion Temple

By Imam W. Deen Mohammed
We greet our Honorable radio audience today with the greetings of Peace in the Qur'an and the Arabic language, As Salaam Alaikum.
Right, and Abraham had a vision. G-d showed him something. He said Abraham is a star.
And look at the stars. They are light in darkness, isn't that right? On that dark scene up there, they're a light shining, and penetrating the darkness with that piercing light, and serving as a guide for men who have lost the sun. Is that right? Well, he can look up at those stars and get some sense of direction. Is that right? So, G-d is saying, "Abraham, I'm going to breed from you many lights." It will serve as guides for a dark world. In the absence of My own image, and in the absence of my Messenger, in the absence of the Prophet, Abraham, himself. G-d was going to make saints out of his disciples, so that they would serve as lights in a dark world, until G-d come back with the light of the sun and the moon. Is that right?
Well, this is what the book is saying. And along comes one who didn't know the whole story, and wanted to steal it away, and he said he could be the vision, and G-d said your descendants, your seed shall be as the sand of the sea.
And here is a fall, that falls from the heavenly order to the dead physical order. And the sands on the seas don't produce plants, not to mention vines bearing fruits and trees laden heavy with fruits. That sand on the sea brother, it can't produce a blade of grass. You go out to the beach, what do you see? Dead plants, dead plants. It's as clean as can be. But no life. Isn't that right? Clean as it can be but no life. The rocks are kept so clean until it done washed away the human being. And there are some of us in this world today who call ourselves by different names, even mystic Muslims, who think that G-d want us to become so angelic, that we lose all our human form and essence. And if that happens, we become like the deceiver, who tried to steal the plan of G-d and take over the world. That deceiver who wanted to steal G-d's beautiful plan , and take over the world. He conceives his disciples, his servants, as being sands on the beach. There are many but they have no life. There are many but they can't guide. The heavenly order guides and they have light. Is that right?
So now, when we look at the progression of the man out of the ground, because G-d said He made Adam of the dust, shaped him and breathed into him of His own Spirit, is that right? Now look. We know spirit in feeling, but spirit must be seen with the eye also. Not with the physical eye, but with they minds eye. Because the book says "Every eye shall see Him". Is that right? And the book says that G-d is not flesh, G-d is spirit. And we are supposed to see spirit. But how can I see spirit? When you see knowledge that is submissive and in accord with G-d's plan, you see spirit. And that's what G-d means when He's talking about how He's going to create man in His own image and likeness. He's going to create in man a superior knowledge of Himself and His world order. And that knowledge is going to be a light on Earth. Is that right? And G-d tells us this in the Genesis by giving us a picture of how the Heavenly bodies operate. You see there is a sun up there? It's out of reach but its light is not out of reach. Is that right? You can't climb up there and catch the sun so don't think you're going to catch it as a physical body. But you can grab the light. You see the light of the sun and it's something that can penetrate darkness. Is that right? And it's something that has no weight. Who can weigh light? Who can bring us a pound of light? No one can bring us a pound of light. But we can bring millions and billions and trillions of tons of knowledge that a physical scale can't weigh. So really G-d's light has more weight then the physical creation itself. And none has more weight then the raw, physical body. All Praise be to G-d.
So, G-d said, "Let there be light." And after the spirit had moved upon the face of the water, then he said, "Let there be light" and there was light. But we can't have light until the spirt moves upon the face of the water. Darkness is upon the deep. Is that right? What is deep? Mind is deep. Conscious is deep. Right now, when we're describing the activities that go on in our mind, we use the term deep. Say "Man, think deep." Is that right? And he's deep. Yeah, he's deep, but if he's shallow, you know what that means. All right, so the book says that the spirit of G-d moves upon the face of the water because something needed to take place in the deep. Is that right?
Darkness was upon the deep. So, the spirit had to move first. We can't know G-d first. We can't know truth first. We have to feel it first. Things will come to us in the form of feelings before they can come to us in the form of understanding, and that's why the book says "Blessed is he who gets an understanding." Because many of us say we know, because we feel it. Is that right? I know G-d because I feel it. I know you love me, baby, because I feel you. But after I look back it, then we stop saying I know because I feel. We start saying I know because I have observed it. And I weighed the facts. Is that right? So, G-d says that He is going to make man in the image of Himself and His angels, and He begins the process by saying, "Let there be light after the spirit has moved upon the face of the water, upon the face of the human nature," and we appeal to the human nature.
With message of G-d, it's going to bring about a result in the spirt whether it brings about a response in the mind or not. I don't care how dead, how corrupt, how backwards, how far away you are from truth and righteousness. Let me talk to you for five minutes. Let Reverend Brown talk to you for five minutes. Let any of G-d's servants talk to you for five minutes about the wonders of G-d, and you are going to be moved in your heart, or in your raw form if you're not moved in your rational body. Is that right? So, G-d wants a touch up in the spirit to make us come to Him with love in our hearts. He doesn't want us to come to Him looking for something for ourself. Because if we come with our minds first, most of will come selfishly. We come looking for Him to give us something to increase our bank account, something that's going to give us a little superiority over our sister, our brother, something that is going to give us a power that we can use to bring our mob into existence.
But becomes because G-d touches us in our human form, then we come as it's supposed to come. As lovers of G-d, we come loving Him, and He has to respond to the person who loves Him. Is that right? It is nature to respond, and if we love G-d, G-d is going to respond and give us guidance, and so the spirit moves upon the human nature, and the human nature begins to respond to that spirit. That spirit in you. Is that right? That spirit's in yourself, and G-d begins to make that move, and you begin to struggle with that spirit. Against the spirit of love, against the spirit of desire, and G-d increases that spirit and an increase of that spirit makes your mind's eye begin to open up.
Just like there's a baby born just in the world today. Picture its eyes opening up, and he says something. We can't understand him. All he know is that he saw something. And he begins to blink his eyes because the light is so bright. He says "Good G-d, I know its something out here." This light so powerful, I got to open my eyes again." And then he'll open them again a little bit slower this time, because there's a lot to see, and he will open them up again real slowly. You ever notice the little babies when they are born. They open those eyes real slow, and after a while, he's looking at it. He's looking at it. He's searching it. He's collecting it into himself, but this is the way G-d opens up Himself, and when I talk about Himself, we can't see Him in the flesh. You want to see him in the flesh, look at yourself.
But we can see Him in the spirit, you understand, and when we begin to see it, we say "Oh, buddy." I'm telling you, we say "Good G-d Almighty. Good G-d Almighty." I'm glad G-d has given me two eyes inside. Because my sight will be focused. Only one eye is needed. Is that right? Because truth is one truth. All Praise be to Allah. And Almighty G-d, though He give us two physical eyes, He tells us something. Because these two physical eyes, though they exist as physical eyes, they operate as one eye. When we look with two eyes, we are looking through one scope. Is that right? And so, G-d is telling us, "Oh, man, you got two eyes? Now, you're thinking you're physical in one sense and spiritual in another sense, and the world's going to be divided up between angels and men, or between spirits and flesh. But one of these days, you're going to get one focus. You're going to wake up and understand that I've given you two eyes so they can see that My world and My way is one.
Now, let's go back and look at the Genesis and catch up with our story here again. It says that the man was made out of the earth, the physical earth, and then formed after the Spirit of G-d came into him. This is symbolic of the desire. That's all. It's symbolic of the desire. Came into him. Where'd the desire come from? It came from G-d. G-d has to give us the desire. Poor man, poor woman, the world has crushed your soul so much, broken your spirit, beneath the feet of this cruel world, and you just can't conjure up the desire to do anything for yourself anymore. You just sit at home and die in the destruction that this world has brought into your life. Is that right?
But there is something that's powerful enough to break that destruction, to break the grounds of that destruction, and cause the pieces to come together again. That's divine desire. What are we talking about when we talk about divine desire? We are talking about whole desire. You see when a man is thinking about himself and his children, his desire is broken. When a man is thinking about America, and not thinking about the poor and suffering in Africa, his desire is broken. But when a man begins to think of the misery that's happening all over, and feels it in himself, then his desires are beginning to come together. Is that right? When a man searches for love, and he searches everywhere, I don't care where it comes from. From a bear, or an ape. Or if G-d shows him love. You understand?
When a man begins to respond to love, no matter where it's coming from, or what image it's coming out of, then his desire is becoming whole, you understand? So now the desire to become whole, G-d is in that desire. That's divine desire. Is that right? Oh yeah, that's divine desire. So, the book tells us that G-d breathes from His nostrils. He wants to let you know that this can't come from anyplace else. You must conceive the beginning of creation, the life of creation. You have to perceive that as being a light that is one. One, not two. If you think of it as two, or more, more than one, you going to divide your life, you going to divide the world, because you'll come up with a G-d that's operating here, and another one that's operating there, and that's going to divide you within yourself. It's going to divide the world in your vision. Is that right?
So, G-d said, in the beginning of the book, He says, "The Lord, your G-d, is One, and have no other G-d before Me, and make no graven images." Is that right? Don't let no image come into the temple. And when you bow down, worship G-d in spirit, and not in your own flesh. Is that right? This is G-d brother. All right, let's go on a little more here. G-d said, "Let there be light," then He separated the light from the darkness. We think he's talking about the physical light, and the physical darkness. He's talking through the physical light, and through the physical darkness, to give us a message that's a little bit more powerful than that. He shows us our ignorance and sin.
And after He had made the man, He looked at the man, and saw the man was lonely. Had to make him some company. Is that right? So, G-d went back to man, and took out of the man a rib. And with that rib, He made that man some company. Is that right? All right, so if the man means the light of the human world, which is knowledge and understanding. Truth. If the light means truth, and man means the mind, it means that truth, or that light. And G-d said, "Let us make man", and He made mind and consciousness in the image of divine, and then He saw that that mind, or that consciousness was lonely, and made for it a woman. What is He talking about? He's talking about the third mind that He made, the third consciousness that He made. It's called a Messenger. Or a Prophet. Or a servant of G-d. Or a Christ. Is that right?
He makes this, and then after He makes it, the human being becomes lonely when he takes the form of a Messenger of G-d, of a servant of G-d, of a Christ. He becomes lonely. He is anxious. He can't rest, can't hardly sleep at night. He had to get up before his rest is completed. Why? Because he wants some company, some company like him. Is that right? And so, G-d made him some company and told him now "Here it is. Here is flesh of your flesh and bone of your bone. Is that right? Alright, so what is talking about? When the Bible is talking about flesh, it's talking about the flesh that G-d designed for people. Because in our flesh, we are animals if we don't let the spirit and truth of G-d come into our flesh. Is that right? So, G-d didn't want animals. He had animals. He wanted something new that's superior to an animal, something above an animal. He wanted a human being. So, the human flesh must take on new attributes, new descriptions, you understand?
The human flesh can't be in the flesh of greed and hunger for more flesh. Because the flesh creatures are hungering for more flesh. They might eat grass like an elephant, the biggest mass of flesh walking the land. He doesn't prey on flesh, he eats grass. Is that right? But still, he moves by flesh. That elephant is moved by the heat of flesh. And he's satisfied to have his whole world reduced to nothing but the mingling and rumbling and the coming together of flesh. Is that right? As long as he can lay with flesh, and make some more flesh on the earth, that big old elephant is satisfied. Is that right? We've got a world that's ruled over by so-called Christians. That's all holy when it comes to not shedding blood. They’re not the kind of prey that go out and tear flesh and drink blood. They speak of peace and love. But amass a big body of wealth. Big like an elephant. And never display any human love or character. And keep it all to themselves. Is that right?
There has to be all kinds of riots and demonstrations, all kinds of protest from the people to pressure Christian society into responding to the needs to be looked after. You see? So, we have an elephant society. This is an elephant society. A society that never eats blood you know, at least not in the open. It would rather be grazers of the grass, you understand. Keepers of the sheep. But they become big and huge while they leave others part of the family lean and starved out. The book says "A certain people waxed fat. And when they waxed fat, G-d saw fit to destroy them."
We know being overweight is terrible. But if the individual spend all his time stuffing themselves, after awhile they get out of order. People look at them and say, "Man, you used to look fit. But we can gorge ourselves so much and become unattractive and ugly in the physical form. And we should see that as a sign of divine that we can gorge ourselves with greed, under the influence of greed, and we can become so selfish, wanting everything for ourselves. Not giving any of it out, you see. That we become so fat and ugly in spirit, fat and ugly in human form. And the world looks at us and say "Good G-d, I can't stand sister so and so". Is that right? You know what they say- "I can't stand that sister".
"Let there be light". Let the light be divided from the darkness. Is that right? And then after He had made the woman for the man, made the woman of his rib. What are we talking about here? Ribs. The bible says G-d is the first bone. Or the first rock. Is that right? Why is a rock used as a description or attribute of G-d? Because rock has firmness. And the book gives a parable of the man who builds a house on the sand, and another one who builds his house on rocks. Is that right? The one who builds his house on sand, the rain comes, and in time, the sand gives away, and his house just drifts away. Is that right? The one who builds his house on a rock, it stands, is that right? So, what is this book talking about? It's talking about something firm. A rock is just another name for truth. That's all it is another name for truth.
And then later on, ancient men, later on, and they are playing around, and experimenting with terms, and seeing which terms can convey their meaning best. They came up with the bones of a man, and then the book speaks of the bones of a man as stone. It says, "My stones are broken in me." Is that right? I'm talking about that Bible. You've read it. "My stones are broken in me." Is that right? Means my truth is broken in me. My truth won't hold, it has a crack in it, and it's bringing about sadness and misery again. There's confusion and sin and sadness in my life because my truth is broken. Is that right? Because G-d made a man in the very image of Himself, an angel. Truth. Yeah, that's what He made, truth. Divine mind and divine consciousness. You understand? Then that man got lonesome for someone like himself, and G-d made of His own bones, some company for him, meaning He made from His own truth, some company for him.
Now, remember, Adam is the beginning of the making of what G-d wants. In the beginning, the society missed by a long shot what G-d wanted. So, Adam is not what G-d wanted. Adam is the beginning of what G-d wanted. Is that right? But G-d wanted something complete. That's why Christ is spoken of in the book as the second Adam. Because that man was incomplete, and there's a need for one that's complete. But G-d's work has to be finished in the earth. Is that right? All right, so He made it from a rib, and now we know a rib don't represent the man. The rib only represents one bone in a man. Now, here is a mate being made to keep him company. Something that's made of just one rib, and a rib is not a complete circle, but it is small arc of a circle. Is that right? You see, a rib, it's just a small arc, is that right? A rib is a small arc, but G-d wanted to make that arc grow until it becomes a circle, like His sun, like His moon, like His universe. Do you understand?
Speaker 3:
You have been listening to the Chief Minister of the World Community of Al-Islam in the West, The Honorable W Deen Mohammed. The Honorable W Deen Mohammed, Chief Minister of the World Community of Islam in the West, has directed his priorities to go into the community to arrest all forms of blight, and to help protect the lives and property of families and individuals within our neighborhoods, city, and state. You, too, can help by becoming one of the growing number of business professionals and community residents known as the Friends of the Nation of Islam. For a small donation of $1 or more, you will be listed as a Friend of the Nation of Islam. We encourage you to give support to this much-needed worthwhile effort to make our community a secure place to live, work, and raise a family in. Get your membership card today. Join the Friends of the Nation of Islam. Send your donation to The Honorable Elijah Muhammad Mosque #2, 7351 South Stony Island Avenue, Chicago, Illinois 60649. Mark in care of Friends of the Nation. For further information, call (312)-667-7200.
Speaker 4:
Bilalian News. Bilalian News. Bilalian News.
Speaker 2:
Bilal was such an outstanding man in the history of Islam. Bilal became the first Muezzin, the first Minister of Prophet Muhammad, May Peace be upon him. And this man was a black so called African. And he was so sincere, his soul was so pure, that The Prophet Muhammad and the other leaders among him addressed this man as Master Bilal.
Speaker 4:
Bilalian News. A newspaper that's dedicated to [inaudible truth and justice for all people of the earth. Bilalian News. Your newspaper that's factual, timely, and essential. Bilalian News covers the four corners of the earth with topics that are vital to the world and to the community. Bilalian News at your newsstands or from your Bilalian News representative.
Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar.
Tune in next week, and every week, at the same time over this special network of stations for the national broadcast-


