01/18/1975
IWDM Study Library
FOI Class NYC
Pt. 6

By Imam W. Deen Mohammed
He's a natural minister, he's a natural spokesman. He’s a natural defender of truth. He’s a natural source of inspiration to our people. See I know him, don’t think I don’t know him. And the honorable Elijah Muhammad didn’t pick him because he saw nothing in him. He picked him, because he saw something in him. If he has put upon him the responsibility that he has that speaks for his worth. I could go on talking about him, but like he just said it's not necessary, but I want to say something just before I leave.
You see, we have a national secretary over here. Wait a minute, let me tell you something about him. The national secretary, he has been struggling. Don't think the job is easy. The job is hard.
I know that the minister here he has a hard job too. Anytime you're working with people called Negros and niggas, colored folks and black. I don't care what they're doing in the Nation of Islam. You have a job, because we have to be made all over again. It takes a long time to make us over and sometimes we think we'd been made whole, we think we've been new and completed for a long time and all of a sudden, some emotional trouble drops out of the ceiling on us and we jump into the nigga image again. But believe me, brother, 1975 have picked the messenger into another gear and we go to wipe niggas out completely.

We have our brother the national secretary brother Abbas Rasul. When I saw him, I saw something in him. The messenger had put him over in that position after replacing-- Pardon me, after dismissing the old national secretary. When I saw him, I saw in him an energy for moving out ahead. The messenger is a wise man. We look for what we like in a brother. If we like a brother that talks a lot of jive talk, that's what look for. If we like a brother that talk smooth, we looked for that. If we look for a brother that talks a lot of wisdom, but leaves it all dark when he goes away, it's still all dark.
We like all kinds of things in brothers. But the honorable Elijah Muhammad he is looking for a contribution to this great work and when he picks an official, that's what he's picking him for. When I saw the national secretary, I saw this in him. That this man had in him energy for moving out ahead. He didn't talk to me. He never confided in me. Is that right brother secretary? But I went straight to him and I dropped off and carried on. I saw that he was mad. That he was the one.
I dropped it on him, he shook his head and he smiled. He said, "Brother Minister, anything I can do for you, let me know." He said, "I'm going to do all I can to help you to get back with your father as you once were. He said, "Any opportunity to help you with your father I'm going to do it. He hasn’t failed. He lived up to what he told me. We have a great national secretary. I'm telling you.

He has an assistant with him. I'm not going to give you his name. If you don't hear his name from the rostrum then you won't hear it, but he has a great assistant. He has a great assistant, because he was a great magnetic attraction for him and he just can't attract inferiority, he attracts greatness. Minister Farrakhan, I know what he has been and what he has meant to the honorable Elijah Muhammad. The honorable Elijah Muhammad has not been able to go about the country preaching and waking up the people and inspiring his people, but thanks be to the All mighty G-d he's blessed with Minister Farrakhan.
I've heard a lot of talks saying, "Well, Wallace is not an administration man. Wallace is not this. He's not that. He doesn't like to see people with too much material comforts. He'll do this and he'll do that." Foolish talk, wasting time just holding themselves up. Why pre-judge a man and say what he will do if he has authority before, he gets authority. You don't know what he'll do. If he's wise enough to take that-- That's something else, brother. What they're talking about.
They talking about me coming into the Honorable Elijah Muhammad's position. If they're talking about that, that's a lot of responsibilities and any man who is fit to take on that kind of responsibility has the wisdom to make the same wise choices that the Elijah Muhammad made.
And to wisely administrate or rule over the nations as the honorable Elijah Muhammad did. If he wasn't qualified, he would never come into that position. Now, some of you will say, "Well, nobody will ever get that position." Brother, don't be foolish. Nobody will live forever. I'm not going to live forever. I might be dead tonight. None of us are guaranteed that we will live forever. Nobody lives forever. Master W D Fard, the G-d who revealed himself in person to, the Honorable Elijah Muhammad, he will die one day. He will physically go to the grave. This material, flesh and blood is earth. It goes back to earth, but we live on.
We just got through speaking on the divine tree. I'm not talking to all of you, I'm talking to a few brothers here. We just got through teaching on the divine tree and how that divine tree comes into being and how it survived and lived eternally, but the physical body goes back to where it came from. If you stop eating, it starts getting lighter. If you keep on fasting and it gets lighter and lighter, it'll become skin and bone and pretty soon they'll have you in the ground. After so long they'll put you in the ground and you will be nothing, but skin and bones that won't be much for the graves to do. You would've done a lot of it already by fasting too long.
The grave will only have to work on skin and bones. Not a lot of fat. All right, so we know this physical body's not going to stay around here forever, but let me tell you something. The Divine Will is strong and it has support from everything in the creation. Believe it or not, I'm not spooking you up. This is not spooky. Just as everything physically is connected and related throughout the whole universe. This life with us is all so connected and related to everything throughout the universe.
If we are in the divine nature and in harmony with the divine will, we just don't die until the time comes. We are not killed until the time comes. If the Honorable Elijah Muhammad dies, it'll be the right time. If I die, it'll be the right time. If I live, you're going to see the Honorable Elijah Muhammad. You're not going to see anybody different than Honorable Elijah Muhammad. You're going to see the Honorable Elijah Muhammad spokesman in his job, doing his job. For as long as he satisfies the requirements or the demands put upon him by the mind of the Honorable Elijah Muhammad, but if he falls short or falls victim, nobody's indispensable.
If the Honorable Elijah Muhammad finds him falling victim and being unfit to continue, the Honorable Elijah Muhammad will dismiss him. I don't care if a thousand or one million or two million people rise up in New York and say, "You are wrong Mr. Elijah Muhammad", he'll still dismiss him and that two million people will just have to get used to the idea that he has been dismissed.
Now I say that to say this, I know what's on your minds, a lot of you. If the responsibility falls upon me and it's going to fall upon me. Not because he says, not because I'm saying it, but because that's how it has been created. That's how it has been made. The responsibility is going to fall upon me one of these days and when it does, the brother will have his position for as long as he lives up to the requirements and the demands.
If he falls victim, I will sit him down and nothing will change my order. Nothing at all. It'll be just like the Honorable Elijah Muhammad's order. In fact, it'll be his order. So, I'm just telling you this. Brother secretary is looking at me now. He's saying, he's stepping out there, "Well, he's never said that before." But it's time for us to know the truth. It's bad just to go on wondering what will happen. Don't wonder anymore.



