08/08/1976
IWDM Study Library 
Judgement

By Imam W. Deen Mohammed
... there's nothing likened unto Him. And I bear witness that Muhammad is His slave, servant and His Messenger. Dear beloved brothers and sisters, Muslims, I greet you with the greetings of peace, the greetings of all the Messengers of G-d, from the beginnings of the religious revealed movement until now, the greetings of As Salaamu Alaikum.
First, I would like to tell you that yesterday was a great day in my life, because of a special experience I had yesterday. Yesterday, I visited a prison. A Graterford facility in the State of Pennsylvania. And there, the Commissioner and the administrative authorities there, opened the prison doors to us and made us as welcome inside that prison as we are here at the Mosque. They repainted the whole theater, auditorium, just to receive us.
When I walked into the auditorium, I was surprised to see the signs, "Allahu Akbar." Allah is G-d, Muhammad is His Messenger. Signs were up just as we are putting them up for Convention days. And there were better than 1200 inmates sitting out there in the theater to hear us speak. I think the population there is around 1500. About 1500, and it seemed that most of them were there. Four hundred of them were Muslim.
And most of them had been caught up in that vicious circle, running from door to door in the neighborhood, doing the same old thing day in and day out, everyday. Petty thieves, dope addicts, drunkards, but they were sitting there and they gave no presence, that I noticed. No signs that I noticed, of any life in them that is criminal. They didn't appear to be convicts to me. I felt that I was among intelligent brothers. Very intelligent, civilized brothers.
In fact, I couldn't get the feeling that I was looking at prisoners, convicts. I couldn't get that feeling. It was good. No sign at all, in that audience, that those men were criminals. They were as intelligent as any audience I have ever faced. They were as human as any audience I have ever faced. So this is a beautiful sign. It's a sign that the power of truth is greater than the forces of crime. Because it changed those people, changed those brothers in prison, and made them look as dignified and civilized a human as any group of people you'll find on the outside.
The administration there has really made a lot of progress. They have accepted the Muslims help and the Muslim brothers have helped them, as only Islam can really reform criminals or moral degenerates in this Western society. Only Islam can bring about that reform that is lasting, real and lasting, for our people. And the administration has accepted Islam and has given the brothers complete freedom to teach the religion, propagate the faith right in the prison.
They open up with prayer, they have their meetings just as we do, they have Jumu'ah prayers as we do. This is... It was almost unbelievable. I told the Commissioner, I said, "Look, this is unbelievable." I told him, I said, "Look, in 1963, I got out of prison. If you had told me anything like this would exist in this short of time, I don't think I would have believed it. Not at that time, because there's a big change. Big change."
And yesterday, I got word that there's an invitation that will be coming from Kansas City, from pardon me, from Missouri. Inviting us to come into that area too and address the prisoners. You know we heard the late Master Elijah Muhammad, Peace be upon him, say many times, "The prison doors would open." That the prisons would open. Most of us... But the Christians are taught that too. Because it's really, it's from the Bible, that the prison doors will open. The graves will open. Everything will open up one day and release whatever it had as captive.
We were taught those things, but we thought it was going to happen in some kind of spooky way. We thought the Muslims were going to get strong enough physically to go down there and break those doors open and let all those problem people come out, back out on society, before they really get straight. And then some of us thought that some spooky key was going to fall out of the sky and open those doors. But we see now what opens doors. Truth opens doors, and I mean every door. Prison door, the door of the grave, I don't care what it is, truth can open any door.
Our subject for a short while here is Judgment. You know it doesn't take long for judgment. Judgment is sudden. All Praises be to Allah. The Holy Qur'an says "Judgment comes like the twinkling of the eye". And even swifter. That's what it says, you know? And you know how quick you can bat your eye. The Holy Qur'an says judgment comes even quicker than that. Well, I'm not one here to bring judgment, so I can't get to the subject that fast, but I don't think it would take long to let you know what we have to say about judgment.
There are many kinds of judgment. There's a judgment that comes to the individual, and that judgment is happening in his life all the time. Most of us are unaware of the signs of judgment in our lives. We go on, ignorant of the punishments that we're receiving daily, for the wrongs that we are doing. We pass out of this world, many of us, never having recognized that something was punishing us every day, year in and year out, for the wrongs that we were doing against ourselves and against society.
There is another judgment that comes on the whole world. That judgment is the judgment that we are talking about today, not the individual judgment. We are talking about the judgment, that popular Day of Judgment, as given in the Bible and the Holy Qur'an. A day when everything that was hidden would come out in the open. Now this day is here right now, and that's why I was chosen to talk to you on the judgment today. Because it is something that is going on right now.
The Honorable Master Elijah Muhammad, he said that, "I am the preacher of the judgment." And he was blessed to see that the world, as we knew it, was doomed and would have to be destroyed. And he called himself "The Preacher of the Judgment," because he did everything within his power to hasten it. And in that sense, he did play the devil's advocate, because anyone who hastens judgment on the world, acts in the role of Satan himself. Because Satan, when he got displeased with man, the creation of man, according to the allegory in the Holy Qur'an, he was displeased. He thought G-d was going to make a man, and make human beings the ruler in the earth.
Satan thought that the intellectual powers of the being should be the ruler, and not the human force. And G-d says he's going to make the human force the ruler in the earth, then Satan got all upset. Got proud and arrogant, and refused to accept that G-d would make a human force the ruler in the earth. The scripture goes on to tell us that then Satan, he vowed that he would be the enemy of man. That he would do everything in his power to bring man to a quick doom. To a quick judgment.
So, this is the story of Satan. This is how Satan came into being. Satan wouldn't accept that G-d is going to make a Prophet, the leader for the earth. A Prophet, a spiritual man, a man that would be moved by moral force and not rational force. "I won't accept that. G-d, what are you going to do? Turning the world into hands that can't manage it, and make bloodshed and violence all over the world?" G-d says, "I know what you know you not."
G-d knew what that kind of attitude on the part of a human being was going to bring about. It was going to bring about the violence and the bloodshed. The Prophet saw this and in the Bible, the Prophet says that, "One day, the blood is going to flow so heavy and in such great volume, that the blood will be in the streets as high as the horse's bridle."
Now, we have thought that these Prophets, Messengers of G-d, were talking about physical things, when they were talking about all intellectual and spiritual things. They never saw physical blood coming up to the horse's bridle, but it's a sign that there would be just... Murder and violence would be increased so much. But what is the blood that comes up to the bridle? If blood comes up to the horse's bridle, it's going to be getting into the horse's mouth. Is that right?
We have to understand what the Bible is talking about. What is a horse? The horse here represents the form of a human being. That form of a human being that is powerful. The intellectual form of a human being is a powerful thing. It's a strong force. The forces of the flesh. Hunger, greed, lust, all of these forces that make up the forces of the physical body, are also a very strong force. Is that right?
And then there's the forces of moral strength, and these forces are also a strong horse. Some people ride the horse of moral strength, some ride the horse of intellectual strength, and some ride the horse of just physical strength. Is that right? So, the Bible says that there is coming a day when the blood will be up to the horse's bridle. And the Revelator, he says that there's going to be horses of death, with a rider of death on it. Is that right?
And a red horse, representing the forces of the flesh that has gotten so much out of control, till the horse is depicted as a red horse. You, see? Like Satan is depicted as a red Satan. Red meaning that the heat of his physical appetite has become so hot in him, that he's turned red like a piece of iron that's heated red. You know what I'm saying? So. it means that these people are going to... the body of the world. So, what it means is the lustful body of the world, is going to be so heated by lust and greed, that it's going to be like a red hot iron. Do you see?
Greed, and this greedy beast is going to be out there trying to get what he needs to feed his hunger. And the book says, especially in Revelations, the Bible, that he has an appetite that can't be satisfied. Says he's like death. He can't be satisfied until everything has been destroyed. So the prediction of the Prophet, the prediction of doom of the world, is not so much a physical doom, but it is a doom or a judgment that is coming to the mind because the mind got off the track.
The Prophets, when they saw that the society was going off the track, the human mind was taken away from the guidance of G-d, then they predicted. They said, "Look, if they follow this course, we know where they're going. If they follow this course, all kinds of evils are going to be increased on earth." So, they predicted a flood. Is that right? That a big flood is going to come. And the Bible says that as it was in the days of Noah, so shall it be in the days of the coming of the Son of Man. Said at the end of times, it will be as it was in the days of Noah.
That the world would be flooded by a great flood. And all this time, we thought that this meant that some rain was going to fall for 40 days and 40 nights, and flood the earth as it was... Flood, as we think of a flood, flooded, back then in Noah's days. But they weren't talking about these things at all. The water is addressing the moral make up of the human being. It's human makeup. The human beings moral makeup is like water. A human being wants to be quiet and peaceful. He doesn't want to be disturbed. And water will not become disturbed unless man or something acts on it. Is that right? But if you leave water alone, water will seek its level man and be as quiet as nothing happening. Is that right? The most peaceful thing you can find is a body of water that is not disturbed by outside forces.
So, the book says that the human being is like water in its make up, but that something was going to happen in the world that would cause a flood on the earth. Now the flooding is different from just a heavy downpour or a rain. When the rain is pouring down heavily, it does damage, especially when there's wind. It does damage. But real damage doesn't come until the flood builds up. When the flood builds up, the water breaks its boundaries. It runs over its natural barriers. Is that right? When the water begins to run over its natural barriers, it gets into places where it shouldn't have been. Is that right? Or where it wasn't intended to go. The water goes into the cesspool, into the outhouse, and make all that filth come up and bring it in where it shouldn't have been.
So, the Prophets saw this, they saw the society continuing on this destructive course, on this blind course toward "self-destruction," heedless of divine guidance, that every time the corruption would reach its full, and overflow the society. And when that happens, it would be judgment. So, this is a punishment that's coming on society. A punishment that is physical, but it's a punishment bought on by mental, moral and spiritual disobedience.
So, when man is breaking Allah's laws by himself, he brings wrath upon himself. But when man conspires, comes together with other deceitful men and looks at G-d's plan and says "Let's undo it, let's make it all over again so it works for us instead of working for G-d". So, men come together with a cruel, ruthless idea like that brother, and presents that plan and make that plan effective in the lives of the people in the society, then the judgement must come not only individually, but judgement must come on the leadership of the world.
And that's what we are experiencing right now. We're experiencing a divine judgement coming down against the leadership of the world. Look at the leadership of the world today. Look around. Look at how afraid they are. They're afraid to show courage. They're afraid to show moral courage. They're afraid to show spiritual courage. They're afraid to show intellectual courage. They have a history for being dare devils when it comes to physical courage, but today they're even afraid to show physical courage because the judgment of Allah is upon the leadership of the world.
The book doesn't only predict a great flood. The book says that darkness will come upon the world. But before darkness comes, the book predicts even another thing. It says that poison will fill the atmosphere. Is that right? So, when we think of these things, brothers and sisters, we can see that this is talking about realities that we are living with right now. What is the poison? The poison is the dope, the alcohol, the perversion. Look how perverted the society has become. Worse than Sodom and Gomorrah. Sodom and Gomorrah, they were practicing a little homosexuality. And sneaking in the back of the barn. And trying something out on an innocent animal.
But these people do their thing in broad daylight. They even get on TV now and show you their nude bar. Inviting you and telling you, " Oh, we're not ashamed of our perverted nature. Come on out of your home". Isn't that something? A world that would allow the perversion to come into the private homes of people. Go turn on your TV, you don't know what you might be looking at. No protection, no security. We were sitting in our home on 87th Street, we're turned on the TV and there was women with breast showing. They weren't going through the acts of perversion, erotic sex activities.
But they were approaching it. They were introducing what they have in mind. They were trying to tell us in our homes that we can't give it all to you, but here's a little taste. That's what they were doing, brother. The TV is no longer safe. And I told my wife, I said, "Look, the time is here. We can't get any closer to the end of days." The book says there will come a time when there’s few morals. I'm telling you we've reached that point, brother. Time is no more. No privacy. No respect for anybody. No respect for anything. They don't know whether the man who has a TV there is Jesus Christ or not. If Jesus is living in this society, he would turn on this TV if G-d didn't give him a revelation and let him know that there is a dirty, perverted thing waiting on him as soon as you turn that TV. He would be in for it, wouldn't he?
He would say "Get away". We're living in a society, brother, where there's no protection at all. And the government leaders, they don't know what they're doing, they walk around like a bunch of doped up victims. They can't speak to the evil. We have right now a fight going on. The nominee of President. What are they talking about? And they are saying, "Well, we're going to have to do something about the spread of immorality. Nobody hears them, but a few people they hope they get votes from. Do you understand? A few people who are concerned about the problem. They're going to speak with them and conversate secretly. "Well, we understand, and we know the problem. We're going to deal with it".
But they don't have the courage to stand up on national TV and say "Look, we need a President who will stand up for the moral rights and decencies of the individual. They won't do that. Why? Because they are still so much a part of the corruption. If they can't sign it up fast, brother, they're standing against it. If you're guilty of what everybody else is guilty of, when the problem is brought up, you remain quiet. That's the leadership of the world today. It's so much a part of the evil and the filth that has been brought upon the world so when the question is raised, they just stay quiet. Well, how can we expect to save ourselves from their doom. This is not our doom. The doom that is coming against leadership, not against the victims of society, but the leaders of society are the ones that are facing the face of judgment today.
Brother, its going to change the form of leadership. That's what it's going to do. It's going to take them out of their positions. It's going to kill their power. It's going to deny them the authority that they've enjoyed for so long. And we see that this kind of judgement has already went a long way. It has crippled, tied the hands of the rulers. They're coming out, they can't show off anymore. Doomsday is here for them. All right now the poison gas is out . All kinds of evil that make the mind thick and vivid, that make the hearts weak and pained. All kinds of poison. And the worst poison there is the poison of Christian revelation.
So, these books tell us, the Bible and the Holy Qur'an, tells us that there is coming a time when judgement is going to fall on the head of Satan himself. But before judgement falls on the head of Satan, it's going to fall on the head of society. Society is going to have to suffer for its evil first. And when society comes under the punishment then the world is going to start wondering what has brought all of this about. What has happened to the world. And when it begins to wonder, G-d is going to bless someone in the society to see just what is taking place. And that one, says G-d will make a witness in every community. There will be a witness to every people. Isn't that what the book says? He says he shall make a witness for every community, every people will have a witness, someone who recognized the sign of divine working in the world. A witness not for them, a witness for G-d.
And that witness is going to stand up and tell them, "Look, I can tell you why you're in trouble. I'll let you know how come the world is shaking. I'll put you under brother. Alright. We are suffering a sickness of the leadership. The leadership has been like that. I'll put you under, small nation. I'll put you under, defenseless nation. I'll put you under, mother-f.... So, they said the same thing and individuals pick up that talk. Is that right? The book says that there’s going to come a quake, a great quake. Truth is going hit into your physicalized force and cause it to break. It's going to weaken you in spots.
And you're going to find your physical force lost. You're going to be looking for your physical force and you're not going to be able to find it. I can't push away the waters of the people with the threat of physical force like I used to do. Is that right? If I come at them with my physical weapons and they don't back up like they used to. I threaten the society with my physical arm and they don't show any sign that they're upset. Is that right? Well, this is the breaking, brother, the breaking of your old physical form, shaking and falling apart. It says the whole world will undergo a great quake, a quake, a shifting about. A changing of the physical things that have been established. Things that have been established physically out of due proportion. Too much material wealth in a certain nation's hands. Too much physical power in a certain individual's mouth.
He's telling a lie. He says he can kill. He says he can kill the world. He says he can dominate life. He says he can bring people into submissive obedience by physical force. He's lying. G-d has never given him that kind of power. The only reason why he has had the freedom to execute that kind of false power is because the world has been under darkness. The word has been in ignorance. But G-d says there is coming a time He is going to light the world. And when He lights the world His light reaches the dumb man just as it reaches the wise man. His light penetrates the thick head, the thickest darkness. Is that right? Oh brother, his light even penetrates physical things. Goes right into their thick heads, that thick, fat head of that pig eater, that pork chop eater, that wine drinker, that dope shooter. His light goes in and hits his thick, fat, pig head man, and strikes his mind. It starts him to thinking. And he says, "Oh, Lord, I think I see it. I think I see it."
All of a sudden now, G-d has taken wisdom and put it into a donkey's head, a lazy, fat-headed donkey... put into a donkey's head and have a donkey in the house speaking to the White House, saying, "Look here, United States of America, how come you rode my back so long? How come you struck me these three times?"
Americas leaders still saying, "What the hell is this? A dumb donkey talking?" But it's the light of G-d. It's the power of G-d to bring complicated knowledge, complex concepts, very involved principles to enter a dummy's head, enter a dumbbell's head, and make him understand it brother with clear vision and give him a mouth that can speak clear doctrine and foil the order of the world.
Though the book said that he will raise up a witness, he will raise up a witness that will be able to identify the signs of G-d's doing, and say, "Look, you're moving in that direction. And I know you thought you had a meeting with great successes. You're taking nations with you, you're taking minds and spirits with you. But look, something is catching up with you that you can't beat."
I see the source of his divine work, a little preacher from Georgia said, "You arrange." Your kingdom is a kingdom of devil. You're the peace, the revelation. You're the serpent of Genesis. You're the tribe of Daniel, Ezekiel, is that right? Isaac came to tell him, brother. But when we fell on this things, they said, "What is this fool talking about?"
But after a while, they said, "Look, we don't know whether he understands what he's saying or not. But he's sure shaking the foundation of our kingdom. Yes. He said, "I'm the preacher of the judgement." He said, "I'm not here to make you happy. I'm not here to put you in Heaven. I'm here to bring you to judgment. You have to your own self in Heaven." Isn't that what he said?
We have to interrupt here just for a minute. We have an emergency, very sorry to hear this. There's a sister with a broken leg and we need keys to take her out. We need three keys to what? Brother Omar Sharif, would you go and help the sister, please? We're sorry to hear that. If that's all we had to worry about was a broken leg, we'd be all right.
He said, "I'm the preacher of the judgment." And he preached judgment. He said that the one after me that has to establish a religion. I'm not preaching religion, I'm preaching punishment. That's what judgment is. Judgment is punishment. So, he was preaching punishment, that G-d has come to punish you. And we didn't know, we thought he was talking about Master Fard Muhammad. That this is the man that we saw. We thought this was the G-d that was doing all this punishment. No he just came and brought a message. A disturbing message. And shook up things and disturbed the order. You see? But actually, the G-d that punishes is not him. The G-d that is punishing is the G-d that started you out rightly.
No one has the right to punish but the one who is in rightful ownership of the thing that is going to be punished. Is that right? The rightful owner of the world has the right to punish the world when the world get outside of His guidance. Is that right? All right. The rightful parent has the right to punish the children. My father has the right to punish me if I am a child under him. My mother has the right to punish me if I am child under my mother. Is that right? But now, if you come from another house to punish me, that isn't even right. Is that right? Because I'm not your child, I'm their child.
You only have the right to punish me for what I do against you. Is that right? And that's called self-defense. But mother, she has the right to punish me for what I do against myself. Is that right? Okay.
So, G-d said that you have wronged yourself. I set you right. I made you right. Set you on the right course. And you have wronged yourself. Now no one has the right to punish you but Me because you belong to Me. Is that right?
So, G-d comes now and punish us in front of the world for wronging ourselves. But no one else has that right. The book says that "Christ is judge in the judgment." Christ who? Can the Son of G-d be the judge? No. The judge is the Father. Is that right or wrong? But the Bible says that, "The Son of G-d, Christ, the power to judge of judgment has been given to the Son." Is that right? Then if it has been given to the Son, it's not really the Son. It belongs to the Father. And the Son is executing the fathers judgment. Is that right? Oh, we can accept that. But the people think Jesus is the judge, and that he's coming back here to punish the world for not accepting him as Lord.
But if we understand that the Son of man or someone guided by G-d is given authority from G-d to execute judgment on the world then that's okay. He's just an instrument. Is that right? He's not the judge. And the judgment is not in his hand, really. He's just an instrument of that judgment. G-d is the judge. The Holy Qur'an says, "Who is better to judge then one who's been around for all periods of time?"
There was a time when Jesus was in the womb as a fetus. Is that right? And then there was a time when he was a little baby in the cradle and had to be taken around from place to place. And there was a time when he was a young boy, showing the knowledge that he had to the rabbies in the synagogue. But he didn't become full grown until he was a man preaching the Gospel, is that right? The young man that spoke in the synagogues, he didn't have the forcefulness and the body of knowledge that that Messiah had that preached in the broad society when he was a man. Is that right?
And that fetus, brother, or that baby in the cradle that the book says spoke even when he was in the cradle. He didn't have the body, the maturity that the man had. Is that right? All right. So, if Jesus's existence then is not an existence that was always around him. His existence had to be brought about in the world just as anybody else's existence. Is that right? And Luke said, that he even had to be educated. He was taught and trained and raised up to be a leader. Is that right? All right.
And the book also said that John the Baptist baptized him. And that fiery preacher, John the Baptist, after he baptized him, he walked away from the river and got the Holy Ghost. Says, the spirit came upon Jesus's shoulder like a dove. Is that right? And that happened after he was baptized by John the Baptist. Even John the Baptist has some part in influencing the maturity, the Messianic maturity of Jesus Christ. Is that right?
The book says that the judge, the best judge that goes around says that, "The best judge, what judge can be better than He who has been around all periods of time?" He who was around in the earliest generations. He that saw the first man peek his head up among the trees. You understand?
That one that saw man come upon the earth like a little baby, and crawled around on his hands and knees, and shivers and shakes when the lightening flash and the thunder roll, and run into the woods and hide behind stones and things, feeling the forces of the creation. That G-d that was around when man was doing that, before he got power, before he got scared, before he got the boldness that he has now. All that boldness is being watered down today because this is the judgment.
But that one that was around for all periods of time, He knows when you got off the tracks. He knows when you got off the tracks. Is that right? That one that knows my inner fear, that knows the quiet thoughts that go on in my self-conscious that's rolling through my conscious... That one that can weigh that is not even heard by me in my head, and say, "Yes, you're guilty of this conscious thought." But this unconscious evil that was planted in you by an outside force has been privy to this conscious act of yours. So, I excuse you for part of it and blame you for part of it. Only the G-d that knows everything that can penetrate, the very G-d of everything can only do that kind of judgment. Is that right? All right.
Now, we talk about judgment, the judgment of the world, brother, the judgment of the world. Now, the book says that Jesus himself did not profess to have any such a judgment. He says, "I know only of what is revealed to me. When I speak, I can't speak of myself. I speak only what the Father has given me."
So, what he was saying is that I certainly, I have miraculous power. Certainly, I can convert some of the worst criminals. Certainly, I can bring fear out of the eyes of a heartless whore, a heartless prostitute and make her love me so much that she just want to sit around and listen to me speak the doctrine.
But I had no word of my own, it came from on high. G-d gave it to me. Is that what Jesus said? Jesus said I don't know what is going to happen tomorrow. I can't tell you what is going to happen tomorrow. Maybe judgment will come tomorrow. Maybe I won't be here tomorrow. Maybe disciples will be wiped out tomorrow. I don't know what is going to happen on tomorrow." He said, "Only one know and that is the Father, not even the Son," he said, "but the Father only" knows what is going to happen tomorrow morning. Is that right?
Jesus didn't even profess the power to know what is going to happen when the next sunrise come, what is going to happen tonight when he goes to sleep. He lied down like every other human being brother. He lied down trusting that G-d will protect him in his sleep and wake him up in the morning. All right.
Just saying this, a word to the Christians, our beloved brothers and sisters who are still Christian, who have misunderstood Jesus because this grafted world mentality that has gotten it's place right up to the very throne of the churches, and has sat on the throne in the church. And it told us what Jesus is all about, what G-d is all about, what the Bible is all about, and has set us on a wrong course, and set us on a path of destruction against our own self. Has turned our moral nature against us. Has turned our spiritual nature against us. Has turned our rational minds against us. That devil, brother, that devil that doesn't exist in one human body of flesh, but exists in a body of knowledge.
And it's hidden in the doctrine of the crucifix, that is hidden in the doctrine of trinatarism. Hiding there, the very mind of satan, hiding there, holding the body of many devils that walk around free, far away from the evil that they put there to serve them in the world.
Oh, brother, I'm telling you, it's time for you to wake up. What you have to do is accept Jesus for what He was. Jesus was a righteous servant of G-d, had no more superiority as far as human superiority or physical superiority than any other physical man that was blessed by G-d. His superiority was in his submissiveness, was in his humbleness, was in his obedience to G-d. And that's the only kind of superiority that a righteous servant has. All are servants. Jesus told you that, didn't he? Read the Bible. He said all are servants, every one of them. Is that right?
And he refers to those disciples that served him as servants, and he was the master. But he also demonstrated that among ourselves there is also an equality. Is that right? I wash your feet, you wash mine. Is that right? And he demonstrated these qualities and told them that I'm superior to you not because I'm different by nature than you are. I'm superior to you because G-d has made me superior. He says even the master also has a Master. Is that right?
Says the sent has a Sender, and the servant has a Master. And I am the servant of G-d the Father. Is that right? So, He made his Father the Master of him. He made the sender the superior. Now, who has changed all this and said that they are 3 in 1, that they are all equal? And when you saw Jesus, you saw G-d. When Jesus ascended, went up on the cross and was crucified, G-d the Father, G-d the son, G-d the Holy Ghost, were all there in him.
Oh, if we understand the crucifixion of Jesus in that sense then G-d the Father was also crucified. The Holy Ghost was crucified. Now, if the whole G-d head was crucified, I want to know how they got it back from satan. And when G-d died, the world was totally in satan hands according to that kind of teachings. Is that right? Who gave the world back to G-d if G-d died? You know as Christians you know you can't accept that G-d died. If G-d died, who kept things going? Who protected His work? Whoever did it, they should've stayed on the throne. They should've said, "Well, look, man. I've managed while you was dead". Just keep on, lay down there buddy. Is that right? Yeah. If G-d is fool enough to commit suicide and leave the world to others hands, when He come back and when He wake up, somebody ought put him back the sleep.
Now, that's just a little lightweight, don't think I'm serious about this thing. I'm not that serious, you understand? But the problem is serious, the problem is sure enough serious. We believe this crazy idea. Yes, G-d died for us. No, no, G-d can't die. The Holy Qur'an says, "G-d is He that lives and does not die." G-d is He that gives sleep but is not dead. G-d is He that gives rest but does not rest, neither slumbers nor sleeps. G-d is He that has been around for all periods of time, the One who bought creation into being to manifest His mighty plan. Is that right? All right.
This is G-d, nobody can crucify that Being. The very idea of that Being, being crucified, or that Being, being handled by society is ridiculous, sickening. It comes from a perversion in the mind, Nothing but a perverted mind could see the idea of the All Mighty G-d coming down on earth as a weakling. Saying, "See, love you. I've come to prove it. "Beat Me". Spit on Me" "Curse Me".
Then He speaks out with a split personality, "Forgive them Father, they know not what they do." We thought it was him that came to give his life. We thought it was the Father that came to give His life. But at the point of crucifixion , "Forgive them, they know not what they do." All right. It wasn't the Father, it wasn't G-d that was getting that kind of punishment, it was the Son. Is that right?
But we are made to believe that G-d is coming to give His life. But it's a funny kind of G-d that suffering the problem for the society. Sometimes He speaks as the Son. Sometimes He speaks as the Holy Ghost. He comes to pay for crimes. But when He pays for them, the Son has to suffer then. I'm telling you that's really a kind of tripping in and tripping out, concept of religion brother. I'm telling you, look what the world has done with our minds. That kind of idea, brother, is the invention of satan himself.
Satan knows that if society accepts that kind of belief, a belief that G-d is a split personality. He's G-d, tough, mighty, up there in the sky somewhere. But on earth He walks around and just say, "I love you. I love you. I love you." You can hate me if you want to, but I love you. I'll prove it. "Cut me". See I'm bleeding and I'm not even angry with you. I love you.
And then, here comes another personality out of the G-d head after the Son is dead, and he made people go crazy, get weird spirits, foam at the mouth, all over it. "Woo-hoo, woo-hoo, woo-hoo." I think that one of the spookiest things that you can ever hear about. Fear that the ground begins to shake. All kind of spooky things start happening because somebody lied about the donations.
They said only had so much when they had more to donate. So, all the kind of spooky things start happening. Now, in this... I'm telling you, this is strange brother. Three G-ds in one. One is insensitive, one has no mercy. "Oh I'm going to cause the mothers womb to burst open." And I'm causing things to just fall out of her womb. I'm going to spill out punishment on them as they have spilled it out. I want to fill the up the cup of Christ. If they filled it up once, I'm going to give them double wrath. I'll cause their babies to be bashed against stone". That's a cold G-d, isn't it?
"When they get power, do them in. Don't just walk out peacefully. If you can, steal from them. Put some of their possessions under your coat and in your traveling bag. Trick them". This is the book. That was the G-d that after He created man said, "It was wrong of Me to me that I put him on earth. So I want to correct this mistake." And start a flood. And drown out everybody but Noah and a few sons, and a whole lot of animals that he brought on the ship.
Now, the other personality, the son personality, has to come out now and pay for the crimes of the Father. The son comes out say, "This time, I'm not going to punish him. This time, I'm going to punish myself. And the way I'm going to do this, I'm going to step into another personality. I'm going to become Son." G-d becomes Son and He punishes Himself. And that doesn't work.
Evils increase even more than ever. And G-d say, "I got to bring the Son back." He got to punish them for not accepting His love. He comes back in judgment, right? He comes back in the judgment, and He's just like the Father was, looking for the sinner. He's going to bathe himself in the blood of the sinners until his white garments are going to be blood drenched. Isn't that what the book says? "Oh, he's going go to swing a sword over the earth, this sword is going to cut backwards and forward. He's going to slay and slay. Who is this ? Jesus. Sweet Jesus. That's what the book says, sweet Jesus coming back in the personality of his Father. And He's going to be mad, madder than ever before. That's what the book says. All right.
Here is a package put together by satan himself, a package put together to crucify the world. Satan invented a crucifix doctrine that if the world buys it, it will crucify them. Every individual, every nation that has swallowed that bait hook, line, and sinker brother has become a crucified Christ. Your mind is dead. Your heart is dead. You preach love but you just as insensitive to the needs of others, as any dead thing in the grave. Is that right?
Look how Europe, Christian Europe and Christian America preach love. But look how dead their hearts were to the needs of a poor Bilalian people of so-called Africa. Oh, brother, if you can't see that this is satans package here in the Trinitarian doctrine, if you can't see that satans package is in the crucifix, brother then you will remain blind from now on and never see as long as existence, that there is such a thing as reality. You should never see.
The teaching is so plain, not my teaching, G-d's teaching through me is so plain, brother that there is no fool. I don't care how dumb you are. I don't care how backward you've been. I don't care how far you've been out of the happenings of the world. If you hear this teaching, your mind has to recognize the clear guidance, that this is the teaching that is designed to destroy every good thing that G-d and nature intended to bring about.
There is nothing in you, brother, nothing in you real when you accept this kind of G-d. Everything becomes false. Your mind becomes false. Your heart becomes false. Your physical senses become false. We're talking about the judgment. Your physical senses becomes false. You can't even keep a physical balance anymore in your life, can you? Look how this world suffers, got all kind of businesses set up. On fat people. People making money on fat people. Society can't even handle fat. Is that right? Some of the money they're paying to keep from dying of fat, a poor family could live off it. But they just paying somebody to keep fat from just taking over.
Do you think this is a sane world, a sane society? It's insane. And I'm telling you where the force of that insanity is. It's in the Trinitarian doctrine, it's in the crucifix and the doctrine of the crucifix. Every nation that buys it, becomes a crucified Christ. They can't think for themselves anymore. They can't act for themselves. They can't show love to each other anymore. They become as heartless and tyrannical as the people that converted them. Is that right?
They become as cruel and as insensitive and brutal as the people that converted them to Christianity. Look at Haile Selassie. He's gone now. But look what came out. Look how cruel Haile Selassie was to his people. Look how he kept them in poverty. Kept them in slavery. Wouldn't permit them to be themselves. Wouldn't permit them to have self dignity. Just had a whole camp of slaves.
This is a Christian ruler of so-called Africa. Look what happened in Christian Spain when they accepted Christianity. Look how cruel and vicious they became. Look how they treated the American Indians. Look how they treated us. Is that right? All right. Every nation that bought the crucifix doctrine, it became a monstrous nation, an artificial creation. No heart. The devil itself. Preach love and democracy but deny it. All right. And as individuals we've become crucified Christ. Brothers and sisters, go to church, get happy.
Come out of church, curse at your daughter, kick the children out of the house, for a little thing, for just minor sins. Beat them and kick them out the door. "Okay, you like that nigga? Get out of my house. Go with that nigga." Good Christian, good shouting Christian. Holy ghost filled, holy rolling Christian. "You like that nigga? Get out of my house. I ain't feeding another baby." Is that the Jesus that you say you believe in? The most heartless people you can find, brother, are in Christian society.
But how is that Jesus, the sweet, loving Jesus, how is that his converts are so cruel, so insensitive? Because you are the victim of the tricks of satan, that's how come. Your body has been distorted. Everything has been changed in you, has been taken out of natural form and natural order. You are all messed up. The only way you can get out of that is just force yourself. See when life come into a man or a woman, then they have the power, but they're not going to change the world for themselves, until they use that power. Prophet Muhammad says, "How can you guide people who are, all the time, rejecting guidance? How can you cause people to hear, who have rejected receiving influence?"
So, these people, they have already decided they're not going to be influenced by what they hear, they're not going to be influenced by what they see. So then how do you expect to give sight to the blind when they've already decided that they're not going to be influenced by what they see? And how you expect to give hearing to those who are still here, when they've already decided that they're not going to be influenced by what they hear? Is that right? This is what the Holy Qur'an says. Alright. Brother, it's all up to you. Sister, it's up to you. The power is in you. Once the truth strikes you and you recognize it, it's all in your hands from that point on. Nobody can do anything for you. You have to do something for yourself.
Jesus, when he thought about some kind of force in the people, he didn't say "Out with it." He said "Your faith has saved you." Is that right? He said, "Your faith has saved you." The Holy Qur'an is telling us the same thing. And once G-d's right truth strikes into us and we recognize that truth has struck us, it's in our own hands then. We have to take that power, that truth is working in us. There's a power there, there's a force there, a power and a force that's working up to change your life, power and a force that's great enough to change your life there. A power and a force that's strong enough to change your environment. To turn enemies back, to turn misfortune around and turn into fortune. Is that right? That power is there brother, the power is yours, but if you don't use it, nothing is going to happen.
So, we fear to use it. "Oh, I hear what he's saying, but I don't hear it. I see what he's saying, but I don't see it." Is that right? As fast as you see something you throw a blanket over it . "Well, I think I saw something." Throw the blanket over it. Is that right? As soon as you think you hear something you throw your hands over your ear, and you start listening to something else outside of the environment. "Oh, I think I hear blue birds chirping".
Anything. Put your mind on what's happening at home. Anything to escape what's trying to enter your mind to turn your senses on again. Is that right? But if the senses are never turned on you are going to remain dead. Alright. So, salvation brother has to come to you through your senses. But if you don't accept what comes into your senses, and use it, and act upon it, you are going to remain dead.
"Ah, the minister has been teaching for about a year and a half now. And he came out awfully positive. How come we don't have more people? How come the people are coming in and going out? How come they don't stay? I don't see sister so and so around. And she seemed to have believed once upon a time. And I don't see brother so and so around either, and he looked like a real strong believer. He was donating and fishing people in, bringing people in and working for the Chief Minister. If the Chief Ministers message is really what he says it is, how come all these things are happening? Sisters lying and stealing and brothers lying and stealing, and sisters whoring out there in the street and brothers pimping. How come the Minister hasn't stopped all this?
G-d is not going to force you into light that you don't want when it comes to you. Don't worry, I'm not going to keep you here much longer. You have to accept it for yourself. You have to accept it for yourself. You have act on it yourself. And some of you got so many steady problems, you just strange. I'm telling you, you a strange people. You'll go out and steal something. Not because you have to steal. Because you want to embarrass the Society of the Chief Minister. You don't even know what you're doing. Lot of you don't know you sinning just to embarrass the Society of the Chief Minister. That's why you doing it, most of you. You'll go out, get yourself in trouble. Know it's going to come out. Know everybody is going to see it. Sisters walking around with their bellies sticking out to here, five and six months gone. No husband. "See how the Chief Minister's Nation looks. See how it looks"? You won't do anything but punish yourself. The light of truth is too bright for any big belly to cast a shadow over it.
So go out, if that's what you want. Go out. I'm not talking about people who joined since the Chief Minister has been in power, been in office. I'm talking about people doing these things that have been around here breaking plenty bread with Master Elijah Muhammad, Peace be upon him. People who were pretending to be close to him. "Oh yes, I know the Messenger. He shakes my hand every day. I kissed him on those rosy cheeks. I eat with him often. Those walking around here brother with bellies and no husband. Those that are walking around leading the sisters into corruption. You want to know where the sinners are?
Congregants:
Yes.
IWDM:
I'm telling you where they are. They out of the first resurrection and in death. They have never been resurrected. The first resurrection didn't resurrect them into the first, and this resurrection hasn't resurrected them into the second. They just dead, dead, dead so called niggers.
Don't have the strength to wipe the little puke off their mouth before they come out into the street. If the vomit in the house they got to come out with the vomit all over them you know. Too weak to even wipe the puke off their face. Pitiful, pitiful people. Break wind day in and day out and won't even change their underclothes. This is the picture of the kind of mind we have among us that claim to be supporters of the former leader. Slimy worms. Don't show no kind of proportion. The worm is just one thing. No head, no chest, no legs, no feet. Just all one piece of meat.
Well, that's what these first resurrection people that's hanging around here trying to embarrass the Chief Minister are. That's what they are. A bunch of unformed worms. Slimy, slimy worms. "Oh, we can do anything now. The Chief Minister ain't punishing us for anything. The Chief Minister never could punish you for anything. You punish yourself for everything you do. Even G-d said, "It's not for Me to punish you, you punish yourself."
G-d has set things into proper balance. If we change this balance, we bring hell on ourselves. We can't blame nobody for our problems. Some of you going around here thinking you can blame The Honorable Elijah Muhammad for the evils you are practicing now. You can't blame him. "Oh, I'm only doing this because the Chief Minister said the Honorable Elijah Muhamamd had more than one wife and he wasn't married. I know the Chief Minister is right.We should marry lawfully. I would do it, but I agree. The Honorable Elijah Muhammad messed me up."
You lying, sneaky, stinking devil. The Honorable Elijah Muhammad didn't mess you up. You were messed up when you heard of The Honorable Elijah Muhammad. And his strength had no effect on you. Only his weakness affected you. You bought his bronchitis, you bought his asthma, you bought his muscular weaknesses, but you didn't buy his moral strength. So, now you want to have a lot of women. You want to lie to people. "The Honorable Elijah Muhammad lied to us." He lied, so I can lie.
The Bible is nothing but lies. If you read it literally, the Bible is nothing but a book of lies, if you take it literally. The Honorable Elijah Muhammad was preaching the Bible. If the light is out, and we all see it's light, and if somebody come up and say, "There's an escape right here. There's a place right here where we all can hide. It's safe." When the light is out, we don't see that place. Only you. How can you blame him for that? The truth is loud and clear. You shoudn't commit fornication. You shouldn't commit adultery. Is that right.? Physical, mental, moral, spiritual or any sense. You shouldn't commit adultery and fornication. You're going to bring a sadness into your life and into the lives of others.
The truth is out. Now I don't care if somebody tell you Honorable Elijah Muhammad committed adultery. If The Honorable Elijah Muhammad told you that adultery is wrong, and if you come to me guilty of adultery, I am going to give you 1-5 years out of this Society. If he told you that, then I don't care how many acts of adultery he committed. He freed himself of any blame of your doing. Is that right? Oh, yes. If he told you that, "Adultery is wrong, fornication is wrong, lying is wrong, stealing is wrong." If he told you that those things are wrong, I don't care how many of those things that he was guilty of, he told you that they were wrong. Is that right?
Now, so you didn't follow his words, you didn't follow his message, you followed his weakness, if you took up those things. Now, let me say one more thing on this. If you took up his weakness and didn't follow his words, if you took up his weakness and didn't follow his instructions, then are you a follower of his?
Congregants:
No.
IWDM:
No, no. Brother, if I am leading you and you don't follow my words, but every time I break a physical law, a moral law, you follow that. That's saying to me that you're not my follower, you're my enemy. Is that right? You're my enemy, because you only want to magnify my defects, but you won't follow my perfection. Is that right? All right. So, you out there who think you're hiding, brother and sister, you're not hiding, the judgment is on you. You are not hiding today, the light is everywhere.
Congregants:
Allahu Akbar.
IWDM:
All right, I'm going to let you go in like two minutes.
Congregants:
Allahu Akbar.
IWDM:
Brother and sisters, you can't lie and get away with it anymore. The end has come. The truth is out. The light is everywhere. There's no place for Satan to hide. He has to be destroyed. And we are killing him. G-d has always punished the surviving. G-d has punished the leadership. G-d has punished the societies of the world for their sin. He punished them. All of them are suffering today. They can't muster any force to bring them into power. Is that right?
Congregants:
Allahu Akbar.
IWDM:
They've been living on borrowed time, so to speak. All right. So, we don't have to worry about that. That first judgment has already come. And it has beaten the world down. Is that right? Got the world drooping under the burden of their own sin and misdeeds. All right, The judgment has now come brother, to the devil himself. The mind itself, the very mind of satan, that very mind doesn't exist anymore. So where do you think you're going to hide? You think you can bring about trouble for The Chief Minister? You can't do that. Somebody didn't like the Jumu'ah prayers when we started. But All Praise be to Allah, we got the biggest Jumu'ah prayer meeting in the United States of America.
There's no Jumu'ah congregation on Friday to equal ours in the United States of America. Just here in Chicago we had better than a thousand at the Jumu'ah prayers Friday. Don't think you're going to stop anything. You're not going to stop anything, but yourself. We're here, and we're here to stay. For six months period a year ago, our attendance was about 25,000. Our present, overall attendance throughout the nation is over 40,000 now. So don't think your little personal effort is going to hurt anything. You haven't forgotten that old saying "One monkey don't stop no show."
Congregants:
Allahu Akbar.
IWDM:
We're marching on. And Allah is increasing our knowledge and understanding, day-by-day, He's increasing our love and sincerity for this knowledge that we have. Day by day. Brothers and sisters are thanking Allah 24 hours a day almost. Some of them thank Allah in their sleep for the blessing they are receiving under the Chief Minister. Don't think you're going to change anything. Don't think you're going to change anything but yourself. Come on out and disgrace yourself if you want to. Nobody will be missing but you.
Some of them want to see the old world order come back so bad the they'll commit suicide to bring it about. That's the truth. "We want to see the Chief Minister preach for money. We want to see him regulate these niggers. Let us beat them on the head. Knock 'em down. Kick 'em. Let us get a slave camp of paper boys together. Force those niggers to get out there and sell papers so we can have more money in our pockets."
This ain't the first resurrection any more brother, this is the second. We're not sharing donations with anybody. You have to earn what you get. And if I catch any of you doing it, you're going to be in trouble. Tell me some of you sneaking around, selling the Nations product. Not giving any account for it on the record. Putting the money in your pocket. Let me catch you and I'm going to knock you right in your mouth. Now you think I'm joking?
People give when they need it for their home. They need it for their wife. They need it for their children. They need it for the bills they got to pay. They can give it to other charities outside of this society.
But they give it here because they feel that here is where the real need is, and here is where G-d's message is. That's why they give it here. You let me catch somebody stealing it, and G-d is my witness, I'll take an axe and chop your head off. G-d is my witness. No law of the land puts fear in me brother when it comes to me doing knowing what I have to do for G-d. I'll cut your hand off and if you steal again I'll cut your other hand off. And I'll keep chopping off until you won't have nothing to move with.
I hope you don't think we're playing. Look, anybody that consciously acts against what we are doing, deserves to be killed outright. Not just a hand cut off. That person deserves just be killed outright. We kill people for acting against individuals. Now, here is a life message here, that can save the life of all us. Anybody act against this, is actually against the life of all of us. If they do it consciously, intending to cause harm to us, I'll repeat it, they deserve to be physically killed. And I'm not telling any of you to physically kill anybody. I want to make it clear. I'm not suggesting that you take it in your hands, and punish anybody physically. I want to do that myself.
All I want you to do is bring them to me, and G-d is my witness, I will fire a shot through their heart. I would rather be sitting up in jail, knowing that I have let the world know that G-d's message is strong enough to stand up against all kinds of forces and opposition. Don't think we stand up against moral and spiritual and rational battles and won't stand up against a physical content. Brother, I'll blow a mudhole through you. That's what I will do. I'm telling you what I will do.
Congregants:
Allahu Akbar.
IWDM:
I'm telling you what I will do.
Congregants:
Allahu Akbar.
IWDM:
And I wish you would test me. I wish you would test me. You better look out. Don't let me catch you. Because I catch you, I'm going to injure you physically.
Congregants:
Allahu Akbar.
IWDM:
I risked my whole physical life to bring you this truth, and to bring the us into the order that we're coming into. I risked my physical life, I risked my wife's life, I risked my children's life, I risked many of your lives, that stand firmly behind me. Now do you think I won't kill one of you for messing up all this? You crazy. I'm telling you, you're crazy if you think I won't kill you.
Congregants:
Applause.
IWDM:
No, Killing is a mercy when it's done justly. When it's done to defend justice and right. Killing is a mercy. You saved that person from extending their own evil, and you saved the victims from suffering those evils. Now isn't that merciful? Killing is merciful. And this is what the scripture tells us. That in justice is mercy.
So, I thank you for bearing with me here today. To listen to the judgment. Don't look for a time after the grave for the judgment you been hearing about all your life. That judgment that you read about and heard about from the church people. The judgment that you see in the Bible. Talking about that popular judgment. Not judgment on the individual. The judgment that is coming against the world. This generation right here is witnessing that judgment right now. This is that judgment. The book says that all the evil, that the wicked mind of Satan, of the grafted mentality has invented that those evils will grow, and grow, and grow until they reach their fullness. When they reach their fullness, they would break the boundary, and just cover all throughout the society. And that would be the punishment, the great punishment. That would be the great judgment. That judgment has come. Moral evils have afflicted the society, high and low, far and wide. Ignorance has not only punished the suffering, but it has also punished the leadership. Is that right?
Congregants:
That's right.
IWDM:
So that judgment has already come. The return of Noahs flood, the return of the evil plagues that the Bible tells us about, all of this has come already. The poison in the atmosphere, that's here. That's happened already. These things have happened and they almost about to pass over. The fire that you hear, the fire that will come and set the world afire, and set the lakes on fire. That has happened. That fire is the fire of plain truth and the plain truth is out now and it's burning up the beast in the lake of sweet water Christianity. That's all it means. Burning up the beast of wickedness, the beast of lies and greed and materialism. It's burning up this beast in the lake of sweet water Christianity. All of this has happened. So don't look to a future day no more for those things.
And I bear witness that The Honorable Elijah Muhammad was a preacher of the judgment. He did preach the judgment. And he did comprehend the judgment. He did open the door and pulled back the curtain and introduced to us the final judgment. He didn't live to see it through, but he did bring us up to the door, didn't he? Yes, he bought us up to the door.
And I don't care what the world say about him, he was a man. He lived among us for 43 years. Who knows what the record of Jesus would be, if he had lived among the people for 43 years. He just lived among the people for three years. Is that right? But we don't have any proof, that if a man stay around here forever, then he'll keep up his good record. We never know when a man is going to get weak, and his good record is going to be marred, or smeared by his weakness. Is that right? But let's give the man credit for all of his good as well as his punishment for all of his wrong. Is that right?
All praises to Allah. And remember that G-d says judgment is only in His hands. You don't have the right to judge. Which one of us can put the Honorable Elijah Muhammad into the Scale of Balance? To say he goes to hell, or he goes to heaven. Which one of us has that power? None of us have that power but Almighty G-d. I'd say he brought us to the door. He brought us to the door. I'd say Master Fard brought him to the real, living proof that he could use to work himself out of the grave of ignorance that he was found in. And he brought us to the door of our resurrection.
And now we are coming to the understanding of that symbolic teaching that Master Fard taught, and he taught. And now we understand what they were are all talking about. With more light, we don't have to make the mistakes that Master Fard made. With more light, we don't have to make the mistakes that the Honorable Elijah Muhammad made.
But we still look back in our history, and say Master Fard was nothing, Honorable Elijah Muhammad was nothing. You're a fool, man. Look what they did with everything. Look what they did and with everything. Look at everything they did, and they were giants. They were giants. And that's why I call them Master. Master Fard Muhammad. Master Elijah Muhammad.
He tricked you. Certainly he tricked you. But he tricked you into more good than he tricked you into evil. He hurt you, yes he hurt. He hurt many of us. But the hurt is not as great as the good that he put into our lives. So, if we're going to judge, let's be fair. Let's be fair.
The man has to be respected and remembered for his courage. For his perseverance. For being able to stand up, make a stand and hold to it. To stick to it, year in and year out. The man has to be given credit for that. He demonstrated to us something that we needed. More than we needed anything else. More than anything else the Bilalian people... Brothers, we needed to be shown... to have somebody demonstrate to us, courage.
The courage to stand up against all of the odds, against all the evil opposition of the world. The courage to stand up against the very threat of sudden death, and yet speak out what you know you have to say. That man demonstrated that. And also he demonstrated something else that our lazy, lazy history needed. We had a history, brother, of giving up. We couldn't stick to any one thing long.
That man stuck to his work for 40 something years, and never backed back an inch. He left an example that will pay off great dividends into the life of every individual Bilalian if he holds onto the good, and stop remembering the little petty things that the man did in his life.
All right.
Got to tell you the truth. How come we can't get more life, and more love, and enjoyment? How come some of us got to punish yesterday? That's pitiful. I don't punish yesterday. Yesterday is gone. I'm happy for today. And yesterday was a blessing too. If it wasn't, I wouldn't be so blessed today.
All right. So why punish yesterday all the time? You know this can divide us if we let it. This can divide us. We have a group of believers going off, saying that, "Yes, I believe in Chief Minister, and Islam as he preaches it. But I'm not going to follow the Chief Minister anymore because he's still recognize Master Fard and Honorable Elijah Muhammad." And I think they ought to be brought to judgment. It can create a division among us.
Then you have some that say, "I don't like the Chief Minister, because he's teaching all these things but he won't talk about Master Elijah Muhammad's sin, for what he's done." So here is division being brought about, and those of you are not my followers. You who don't like Master Farad and Honorable Elijah Muhammad, you are not my followers. And you who think that I am trying to bury Master Fard and Master Elijah Muhammad, you too are not my followers. My followers are those that feel the way I feel. That appreciate Master Fard, and appreciate Master Elijah Muhammad. And accept both of them as human beings that were capable of committing wrongs and falling victim of sin. That were great enough to keep on, with everything happening in their lives, they were great enough and strong enough to keep on doing a great work to change things in this old pitiful world. Am I right?
Are you saying that Master Fard committed sin? Certainly, he did. When he told us Yakub’s history, he lied. When he told us we were black G-ds, he lied. We are black human beings. All we ever been, all we ever will be. Certainly, Master Fard committed some sins. But in his personal life, he's not a sinner. He lied to do a great work. He didn't invent this scene. He didn't invent the plan. He got his lying plan from the Bible. He picked up the lying plan of the Jacobite, and he used it to do the same thing on them that they did on the world. Now, all right, we can condemn him but if we condemn him we are going right on back to Satan himself, is that right? All right. If we picked up the plan of Satan, to punish Satan, then the act was a good act that involved some sin. Is that right?
Oh, yeah. I'm not justifying it. That man has to pay for his crime at the court of his Master, Almighty G-d, the creator of everything. And The Honorable Master Elijah Muhammad has to pay for whatever wrongs he did at the court of his Master. Is that right? I'm not justifying anything that they have done. I'm just telling you that you have to look at things in proper perspective, and weigh things in proper balance. And if do that, you'll see more good than evil, and you will see Master Fard working for good and not working for evil. I don't care how many lies he told, he was working for good and he wasn't working for evil. And I don't care how many weaknesses Honorable Master Elijah Muhammad had. He was put before us as a leadership that encouraged and pushed forward and motivated us toward goodness and not toward wickedness. And it was only when we began to view his weaknesses as excuses to disrupt and to destroy the Nation of Islam, that the Nation of Islam began to suffer his small weaknesses.
The Nation of Islam should never have suffered four or five wives that the Honorable Elijah Muhammad had. The Nation of Islam should never have suffered, brother, a couple of lies that the Honorable Elijah Muhammad had told. The Nation of Islam suffered this because of real black devils among us. Chopped the six ounce weight of his law, and put it into six pounds in a wheat thrush. The wheat that was only six ounces when they discovered it, but after they got through multiplying it, we had almost 60 million pounds of evil here, here in the Nation of Islam. Is that right?
Brothers and sisters, we're going into a new day. 1977 we don't want to be bothered with this foolishness. Those that bring up foolishness like this, I'm going to come out in the public. And I'm telling you if I be blessed to live, I'll come out on national TV. I'll call a press conference. And I'll tell the public, I have people among me that still have this mind. People on my staff that still do these things. These people do not represent me, they are my enemy. They are hypocrites. They are devils in my midst. That's right. I'll fix it so you won't have no place outside. Everybody will know you. And slap you in your devil head. And I think the judgment is here, and it's 4:00 now. I have to apologize to you.
In my conclusion, brothers and sisters, I want to congratulate you who appreciate the work of the Nation of Islam. I congratulate you for remaining sincere and staying strong, filling this place up, keeping the life in you and spreading it on to others. And don't let the weak talk of these 'truth slingers' upset you. I came to the mosque today, not the Temple, to the mosque. Temple is a first resurrection term. If you don't learn to call this place a mosque, we're going to bury you in the first resurrection. I came to the mosque today, and I didn't see what I hear. Tell me sisters dressed vulgarly, come to the mosque now don't wear long dresses. I saw sisters coming up the steps looking just as clean as they ever looked in the history of the Nation. Dressed modestly, dressed nice and clean, looking beautiful and peaceful. What's wrong with these people's eyes, that don't see nothing but bad things among us?
I'm leaving you now, I'm concluding this, but I just have to say these two things. "All the sisters going wild, going with each others husbands, and doing this and doing that." But when you ask them who, they can't give you the names. And you know what the Holy Qur'an says? Whoever makes a charge of adultery and can not bring four witnesses, to substantiate, to prove that charge, they should be willing and ready to accept the punishment that was coming to the guilty, if they had been found guilty. This is what the Holy Qur'an says.
All right. So, I'm telling you brothers and sisters, if I keep hearing you charging that there brothers and sisters amongst us committing adultery, and you can't prove it, I'm going to bring you up here myself. Don't think I can't get you, I can find you and get you. I'm just like Solomon. I got Jinn and men in my army. We can get you. Believe me, I'll get you and bring you up here and make you prove what you said. And if you can't prove it, then I'll read you the law. It says 80 strikes. 80 lashes. You're not able to prove it, we have to give you 80 lashes.
And since you are one that's playing the role of Satan himself, running around trying to find somebody guilty to bring to G-d's court, see that's the role of Satan. The Bible say there's two forces that go out in the world. One goes out to find somebody innocent, to bring before G-d. To say, "G-d, see I found a good one. I found somebody that loves you." And Satan he goes about looking for somebody guilty, says, "G-d, I found one guilty, they ain't no good." So, since you play that role, you should be treated as an evil one. We should take a big, heavy belt with metal studs on it, and bust your back 80 times for making dangerous, socially disturbing, psychologically disturbing accusations like that, against people and can't prove it. All right? If you start speaking about adultery, you better be ready and willing to prove it. If you don't, you better look out.
Any brother or sister that will go and disrupt the home of another brother and sister and commit adultery, if I catch you, you're will be brought up here, the truth will be told on you. You're going to be put in class C. If you're working for us, you're going to lose your job. You're going to have to be put out of all of our business meetings. You will have no vote, no power, no influence on my staff. You only have the privilege of coming and listening to the teachings, in hope that the teaching will bring you back to your proper behavior, proper conduct as a believer.
All right. I'm telling you, I've told you this before, I don't want to hear no lying snakes, going out there telling people the Minister don't do nothing to people that commit adultery. You're a liar. I've given openly, I don't tell somebody behind closed doors. I tell all of you what the law is. Now, if they haven't been executed it's because they haven't brought it to me. The responsibility is on those who find the evil. If they find it they're supposed to bring it before the body and punish it. Now if they don't do it, they're guilty of protecting them. If it comes to me it's not going to be protected. Justice is going to be done if I have breath in my body.
There's a sister among us that they say is obviously, without a shadow of a doubt, guilty of fornication. Sisters are talking about this sister. I don't hear anybody talking about the brothers. Like they have no part in it. How can a woman have a baby without somebody giving it to her? The brother is all right. Some of the sisters that are talking about this sister, would like to have the brother themselves. This sister's guilty, and she's already been punished. Walking around with no husband is punishment. And we know her. I'm going to find out how come she wasn't brought before the body and how come the brother haven't been brought before the body. I'm going to find out. But in the meantime, we should be doing what we can to show and prove ourselves to be decent believers, instead of just being filthy, vindictive, cruel. Want to see somebody else hurt that's better than you.
We know the sister is guilty. But this sister has been around a long time without a husband. And to my knowledge she hasn't been guilty of such acts. And if a sister lives 20 some years without a husband, or 19 years without a husband, and don't fall guilty of an act, and falls guilty one time in a society like this, should we bring her up here, cuss her out and talk about her? No.
If I thought that she was the kind of sister that's been lewd, had a habit of going around trying to bring some man in bed with her, I'd be the first to speak her name right now. But I don't care to speak her name right now. Because I know the sister has a lot of good in her and has done a lot of good in her life, and perhaps that's the only weakness she got.
We have to look at things, brothers. Now, she has to pay for it, surely she's got to pay. She's got to come up before the body. But somebody's going to have to bring her up here if it's going to happen just like it's supposed to happen. Prophet Muhammad says "You should help your brother" And of course, it was asked of Prophet Muhammad, "What about a brother in the wrong?" He said, "Help them still." And they wanted an explanation for that and the Prophet Muhammad told them, "Hold him back from wrong." And this old society has made us just like it is. We want to push people into wrong.
And we won't do it with our own hands, cause some of us are too weak to do it ourselves. We'll encourage somebody else to push the wrong. We'll make the trap but stand back, you see. But when it happens we're happy. "Yeah, oh, so and so got caught". How many times did you go over to this sister, and say, "Sister, I think if you don't be careful you're going to get yourself in trouble"? How many times did you go to a sister and say, "Sister, you live a good life, you have a good record among us. So why don't you think about that and just have a little patience. Think over the blessings and the good record that you've established among us. And maybe Allah will send you a good husband next month or next year. Sister, be strong. Hold out a little longer. You're blessing is too good to mess up."
How many of you went to that sister and told her that? You didn't do that. But as soon as she have a baby, "Look at that. Things ain't no better than they was. They're still doing wrong, adultery. Sister's doing everything." The problem is you. You are negative, filth and corruption, breeding element among us. You're here just to discourage people. To dampen and cool the spirit in the people. To put doubts in the minds of the people. To encourage people to do wrong, by making them think that it ain't as good as you think it is. It's not as right as it looks to be. Elements of death and destruction among us. We can put up with it only so much.
Say Yakub didn't build prison houses. His only law was death. And that's the history of the Jacobite people, you know. You read the Old Testament, you don't find nobody being put in jail. The Jews executed everybody. They didn't put nobody in jail. Stoned them to death or something. Nobody going to jail. All right. So, we don't have jails either, and we ain't going to build them. We ain't put you in jail. The Jews, if you did something really seriously wrong, affected the society, they would banish you. Either kill you or banish you. And we're not going to do that. We're not going to send our brothers and sisters away from us, tell them they can't come in the door. Some of you want me to do that. You can ask for it from now on, it ain't going to come.
You don't send the sick away from the hospital when they get sick. The sick need to be where the doctor to can tend to their sickness. If the brothers and sisters commit adultery and fornication, they can come in that door as long as the door is there, to hear the teachings. They lose their life, they are punished because they are exposed, but beyond that, you can't ask any more. "Put them out, don't let them come back in." No. You just don't want these people here. You want me to put out all the good people. Peace be Unto You. As Salaam Alaikum.
Takbir!.
Speaker 1:
All Praise is due to Allah. You may be seated, brothers and sisters.
Speaker 1:
They said that we would understand it better by and by. And I think with all the questions, this is by and by. And anybody who has any questions left in their mind now, they can't hear at all. Because I think that without a doubt, Imam Warith Deen Mohammed cleared up all questions today for all time. And I am just very, very grateful to Almighty G-d, Allah.
Speaker 1:
Brothers and sisters, don't leave just yet. We have a couple of other things. You should be out in the next 10 minutes. Please don't leave just yet. But I think that if we travel around the country and listen to the kinds of things that many people are saying, and seeing all of the difficulties that may exist, they fail to see this tremendous strength that exist in the Nation of Islam. People forget that this is G-d's work, there's no possibility for failure here. People forget that the Honorable Warith Deen Mohammed-
Speaker 1:
Let us see your hands please. Allahu Akbar. Allahu Akbar.
Speaker 1:
Brothers and sisters, we'd like that ask those of you have just seen witness today who believe-
Speaker 2:
What he's asking for is that anyone that's here for the first time, and believe what they heard was the truth and want to help the Chief Minister propagate what he is teaching to the rest of this world, then we ask you to take out a card from us and sign this card so that we can be a part of this big body of Islam. Now, the Secretary staff have some cards in the back and they would be glad to pass these cards out to you. If you are the age of under 18 years of age, you have to take those cards home with you and get permission from your parents. Because we are not about to try to influence people without them having a thorough understanding of what the Chief Minister is teaching. So we ask you, and you've been very patient and very beautiful to sit with us and listen to the teaching of the Honorable Warith Deen Mohammed. And we have to say without a doubt, he's the most just man this world have ever seen.
Speaker 2:
If Jesus was anything like the Honorable Warith Deen Muhammad, he was really a great man. Do you understand? So, we have a teaching that is fitting for all of humanity. A teaching that is so human, and so real and so fervent, that it's naturally a part of our nature. So, we'd like for those of you who believe what you heard is the truth and it's for you, and you want to accept your own, your natural growth and development as taught by the Honorable Warith Deen Mohammed, then please hold up your hands now and we will pass out a card to you, at this very instant. Hold up your hand. Give them a card, fellas. Who got the cards?
Speaker 2:
Brother, where are the cards?
Speaker 2:
All of you all who want a card, brothers, fall out ready and go to the exit sign in the back. Go down to the end and walk to the exit sign at the back. Sisters and brothers, if you want to take out a card, go to the exit sign at the back.
Speaker 1:
All Praises is Due to Allah. Now, look, it's a beautiful thing, brother, to see a brother or sister accept Islam, because it shows that we have rights and vitality and that is nation is growing by leaps and bounds. Can you imagine that over a thousand different listening sites. Well, maybe over 150 listening sites. Thousands and thousands of people, but over 150 listening sites are listening to the Chief Minister speak this message across this United States and even in foreign countries at the same time that we're listening. You know, it's a telecast. Meaning that on the telephone hook up, there are many minds and Heads of States and governments that are piped right in to the teaching right at this very hour.
Speaker 1:
They are listening, and he is talking to the world. And what he said today was so beautiful and so profound because he didn't leave one stone unturned. He really brought the...


