02/26/1975
IWDM Study Library
Savior’s Day
Pt. 4

By Imam W. Deen Mohammed
Is revealed through nothing of this world has ever been made great unless G-d was in its roots, was at its base. Brother and sister there's much to say to you, but we will meet again. Every time we meet, G-d will meet in us and with us. The Honorable Elijah Muhammad will fill our hearts, love for him will never depart from us, respect for him will never depart from us. Though, his 130 some pounds physical body does not sit in the chair of his office. We still respect that chair because we know his work, his teaching, his thoughts, his feelings, his aspiration, his ambition were not that that came into being with the flesh that Georgia produced, but in that that came into being with time itself that unfolded from eternity. Do you understand my brother and sister?
We will honor his chair, we will respect it, we will honor and respect his office and we will never, never, never let anyone come among us and speak a word of discord, and we not hear it. No one can speak a word of cowardice and we not hear it. No one can speak a word to bring about descension and we not hear it, no one can speak a word from the snake minds, and from the snake heart, and we not hear it though it only be a hiss, we will hear it. And when we hear it'll be driven out with the force of G-d and nothing on this Earth can withstand the force of G-d. We say as we have been taught and this is the Muslim prayer, it was not invented today, we find it in the Quran.
“Surely, I have turned myself to you, O Allah who originated the heavens and the earth. I am not of those who associates G-d with us. Surely my prayers and my sacrifices, my life and my death is all for Allah the Lord, the keeper, the sustainer of our world.” We say that and we mean it. Don't think that emotionalism is a force to shake this house. This is not a sitting bull ceremony that requires interpretation, the interpretation of the chiefs among the Indians. No, the common FOI and MGT the common ordinary brothers and sisters in our midst who don't have what we call official rights.
Even they have the knowledge and the understanding of the real power in this house, this is not a church, gymnasium, this is not a musical formed thing. We know the life of babies, we know the nature of babies, we know the strength of babies. We know that when the test is put upon the baby the baby reacts to the test emotionally because G-d has not formed that baby in knowledge. It is still a child of emotions, G-d has not let it live long enough to become a child of knowledge. The Honorable Elijah Muhammad says, “I have supreme wisdom from almighty G-d”, and all of us are men and women of knowledge and when the strong gust of wind coming from the forces of emotion come against this house and blow, the window stays intact.
The shade doesn't even waiver, the curtain that the window though the window be up won't even be moved by the wind of emotions, simply because this house is built on divine strength, this is a house formed by knowledge and men of knowledge just don't fall down in the floor and weep and moan and cry like babies when the wind of emotions. No, if an army of emotion comes against us, with snatching beast teeth, dripping blood, vicious ready to swallow us. Or if the surreptitious, deceitful, disguising beast come in playing the music of the devil. Singing the song of weakness, let your winds of emotions come against this house, it stands forever, peace be unto you as-salamu alaykum.
Audience: Alaykum salaam.
Again, I greet you in peace in the Arabic language As-Salaam Alaykum. Dear beloved brothers and sisters and honorable audience, I have an announcement to make, the announcement of a gift from the Honorable Elijah Muhammad, every year he has given the gift to his followers and to those who attend the convention so all of you, we would like for you to receive from our beloved Honorable Elijah Muhammad the gift of a tape of his speech titled: “The time and what must be done” and “The Judgement”.


