1977-September-16

Bilalian News

Truth And Happiness In Human Nature

By Imam W. Deen Mohammed


With the Name Allah (In the Name of God), the Gracious, the Compassionate. As-Salaam-Alaikum

Happiness is an abstract condition or circumstance or quality. Happiness is relative. Do you think you can go to a school and learn how to be happy? No, you cannot! No amount of education can secure or acquire a state of happiness or happiness for you. Education and schools can teach various theories or approaches that you can learn in order to attempt to acquire happiness, but they cannot produce happiness. Circumstances and conditions that produce happiness are in the power of God. But if you really understand, the key is in your own hands. You have the power from God within you. You can unlock that power so that it will flow towards you or in your favor. The requirements are simple. All you have to do is to make your mind and heart right. Make your heart and mind right even if it means risking the loss of a cherished friendship, an opportunity for worldly advancement, your precious wife, husband, son, daughter, or mother. The key to happiness is given from Allah, but you must use it.

In the Quran, one of Allah's (God's) name, is (Al-Haqq), The Truth. We cannot find the absolute truth without acknowledging Allah. If you commit yourself to finding the strength to take a stand on truth for truth, you will see a change taking place in your life, a change for the better. Say to yourself: "Truth is going to be the light in my life from this point forward. Truth is going to be the hand that leads me from this point forward. Truth is going to be my authority from now on." If you implement this pledge to yourself, you will begin to experience miracles.

You do not have to know Allah. If you will just commit yourself to be truthful, stand on truth, act on truth, follow truth, fully submit yourself to follow the light of truth. These commitments will bring you into the knowledge of Allah. Allah has not made human beings knowing Him. Allah has made human beings feeling Him. That feeling is to move us to truth. Truth will lead us into the favor of Allah.

I find truth here, I find truth everywhere. But Allah is "The Truth." When I find Allah, I really find "The Truth." I have seen the truth of relativity, the truth of human nature. Now I have found Allah, and all other truths appear small in the light of Allah. Allah is 'The Truth" and He's the truth that you can't get easily. He has to reveal Himself to you. You can get it, but you have to earn it! For example, can you get the bosses' money by any other way than earning it? If you do, you are subject to be arrested, put in jail and charged with a crime. However, the boss can give you his money for services rendered. Isn't that right? Alright for services rendered, Allah will give you of Himself. You can't get Allah. That is impossible. If you set out to get Allah, you will never get Allah. But Allah will give you of Himself if you have a total commitment to truth. Standing on truth to shape and preserve a truthful life is the service you have to render in order for Allah to give of Himself.

To have Allah is to recognize and to know Allah as Creator, not as creation. To acknowledge His influences in our personal lives, to know He Is ever present, and to recognize His aid in all the good we do is as evidence before the physical eyes. The path of truth and obedience is real, satisfying, and the sure way to happiness.

Yours in service to Allah, Wallace D. Muhammad
