08/24/1975
IWDM Study Library
THE CREATION

By Imam W. Deen Mohammed
Part 1A
IWDM:	A man can't go out there in the sunlight with his hands over his eyes and expect to get the benefits from sunlight. Just as the natural world is out there to feed your being , this teaching environment that we have here is here to feed your real being, that man, that mind in you, both male and female, but you have to open up to it. You have to be natural in it. You have to be alive in it. If you're going to kill yourself, there's nothing we can do for you but, if you want to live, just let yourself relax and be natural.

	We guarantee that you'll breathe fresh air here, you'll see sunlight here and you'll drink pure water here. As is written in the scripture, once you drink from our well, brothers and sisters, you don't go thirsty anymore. I heard a lot of big talk about me before I came out here. I just left home, I finished my prayer and I was praising and worshiping the creator of the heavens and earth. Then I come out here and hear people saying these things about me. I wish they could have seen me praying and heard what I was saying.

	Such praise were given to many people and many times, in most cases, the praise that we give people, especially religious people, people who stand up for the truth is sincere praise. I don't think that brother Minister Shah, a man that I have great respect for and great love for, I don't think Minister Shah actually was trying to say to you that I'm G-d or I'm the supreme being. He was only saying to you what was said to us over a period of about 40 years or more by The Honorable Elijah Muhammad concerning the person of Master Fard Muhammad.

	He said that our Allah came to me in the person of Master Fard Muhammad. Now, if someone comes to you in another’s person, then you have to be able to identify, to separate, distinguish in your own mind, the difference between the one who's coming and the person that he's coming in. I'm not here in G-d's person but G-d is here in my person. That shouldn’t surprise you. As black people, we have believed for a long time that G-d came in the white man’s person and many of us had the image of that white person on our breasts, hanging in the home on the front door, hanging over the bed so when you sleep at night, you'd still be near it.

	We are people who are used to hearing talk about G-d in the person of somebody else but the mistake that we made is the mistake that the Caucasian made who gave us this religion. We made the mistake of seeing the creator in creation and thinking that creation was creator. We made the mistake of thinking that Jesus was G-d. You listen to Caucasian preachers when they preach. The intelligent preacher. When they preach, they say Our Father, in the name of Our Father in Heaven. Our Father in heaven blessed us with this, blessed us with that.

	In the name of the Father, the Son and Holy Spirit. The preacher, our preacher, the common preacher, black preacher, when he preaches is because he's limited. He received his third handed, the Caucasian received his second handed and the black man received his third handed. When he preaches "Oh help us Jesus." Jesus is direct, his voice goes straight to Jesus, you see. Oh Lord, call on Jesus, just call on Jesus. Jesus himself, according to the bible, called on G-d. He never taught anyone to call on him. He called on G-d himself, he called on G-d for himself, he called on G-d for his followers, he prayed to G-d.

	He prayed more humble than you pray today in a church, standing up, shaking and trembling and sweating and funking up the church, excuse the expression. Jesus, when he prayed,, he got down like an obedient, intelligent servant and put his hands and his knees upon the ground and put his forehead on the ground. That's the position that he took, that was his posture when he prayed to the most highest supreme being. If that man humbled himself that way before the world, what has caused his followers to go astray today in this modern Caucasian history and turn to that man and pray to him?

	If you want the answer, read Muhammad Speaks. As I told you, I don't rush, I've got plenty of time. A man should rush with the unimportant things. With important things, he ought to take his time. You catch some preacher getting up, ranting and running off a thousand words a minute, he's disrespecting the value of that message that he's trying to deliver. You go to the uneducated and you find them rushing, ripping and running like the house is on fire. You go and observe the scientists, they sit and they're sitting down and you think they aren’t doing nothing half the time but that man is working but he's giving enough time to important things.

	We want to talk about two things today. We want to begin with creation because everything begins with creation that has a beginning. All mighty G-d has no beginning. He, himself, set creation into motion and brought about the beginning of creation. Then, life manifests out of creation after creation manifests in the heavens, in the skies, in open space. This creation is governed by laws, it's not free. Creation is a slave to the laws that G-d placed over creation. The sun can't change its life. The sun can't change its movement or its patterns in the heavens, it must follow the same pattern  over and over and over again until it passes away.

	The stars, our planet earth, these things under natural law, they are not free. The plant life that grows out is not free, it's under a law and law rules it. Likewise with the animals, they're under law. Allah has cut out for them already the life that they have to live. A bird has to be a bird and build its nest and raise its young, as Allah has designed that that bird should do. So it is for all the other animals, except one animal and that is the animal they call human being.

	This human being, he's not under the natural law, only in his physical being, he's under the natural law and because of the consequences of him being under the natural law physically, he's affected by the natural law in his whole life but he is free, as a person, to rebel, to reject, to rise above the natural law. There's a natural law that holds everything to the earth, we call this law the law of gravity. Man did not only rise upon the face of the earth and fly upon the air like the birds, he broke the gravity.

	He broke the pull of the physical earth by figuring out the speed of the earth around itself, its motion and what not in the solar system and then making a vehicle on earth fast enough to break the speed of the earth’s rotation and, in result, pardon me, and as a result, the gravity or the gravitational pull of earth was broken by man and man has managed to get outside of the gravitational pull of the earth. I heard muslims saying "We thought that man couldn't go to the moon" and they were surprised to learn that the Caucasian had broken the gravitational pull of the earth.

	If you review the teachings that you received under Master Elijah Muhammad may piece be upon him, you will recall that he told us that there was a certain ship that could stay outside of the earth's gravity. He told you that somebody had already made a vehicle to stay outside of earth's gravity and this was told to us as early as 1934 and 35. It shouldn't surprise us that the Caucasian finally got the knowledge of how to break the gravitational pull of the earth and go outside of the earth's sphere. In doing this, man has overcome a natural law.

	This law that held everything else to the earth was not strong enough to hold man to the earth. Man broke it. Be patient. Ten minutes listening to us is more fruitful and rewarding to your mind, to your intelligence, to your human development than 10 years listening to others. The creation has its laws but that originator of creation did not intend that law should rule his creature forever. When the baby is born, he's born just like a horse, a chicken or any other animal. The baby is born helpless and dumb, not knowing anything.

	The baby crawls around and it takes them longer to get up on his feet than it takes the animal. He is dependent for a long, long time. G-d, in his great wisdom, is trying to teach this creature, humility, humbleness, appreciation, so that when he gets that great prize that the G-d is going to give him, he won't forget that he got it from on high. As the book says, foolish man blinded by the appetite, exciting things of the physical world, forgets his own maker.

	In forgetting his own make, how he was made, the lowly  thing that he came up from, he consequently forgets his maker and thinks that he is the maker. It's easier for man to think that he is the maker, if he forgets his maker. Why, because nothing else in creation is superior to him. He's the G-d of the physical universe. I repeat, he is the G-d of the physical universe. I need to say that for a third time; the human is the G-d of the physical universe. Doesn't G-d mean the master, the ruler, the superior?

	When we look at the physical universe, can we find something superior to the human being in it? The book says that G-d crowned the creation with man. Well, these dry bones are going to come together, they're going to live. They may be dead and lifeless now but they just can't stay dead forever under the power of this truth that we have here in the Nation of Islam. I want to get off the subject just a minute, not exactly off the subject because really, I don't even call it a subject. Whenever I talk, I call it a conversation.

	We've been having too much preaching. We need conversations. We need to talk to you and you need to talk back, that's conversation, is that right? I pause to give you plenty of time, the question, to think, and throw words back at me. You don't have to talk out loud and disturb the meeting and keep others from hearing what I have to say,  just think and I hear you, brother. I heard somebody just say "I don't think", now he's saying he can hear what people think. The same G-d that made this ear to hear, the knocking together of physical things, made also another ear to hear the knocking together of mental things.

	Don't worry about me hearing your private thoughts. I can't hear nothing unless Allah wants me to hear it. Really, I don't want to hear what you're thinking unless you want to tell me. It might be something to hurt my feelings. There's a little allegorical teaching in the Holy Quran that goes like this, it says "G-d invited all the creation to be free, to be free to rule and govern all the rest of the creation. All the other creations rejected it." They said "No, I don't want that" and the human being was the only one that accepted it.
	
	Since the human being accepted it, G-d gave it to the human being. This creation now, being under law, is an ordered creation, an orderly creation, a peaceful creation. When human beings want to get the sensation of peace, quiet, they look to the heavens on a clear day, is that right? We know sometimes the sky above us is quite disturbed, storms and what not, but when that sky and really the clouds and the storms are not from out there, they're from here . You'll learn this in science if you all haven't already learned it.

	Storms and trouble don't come from out there, they come from in here (we feel that a storm is disturbing) and go up there. When we see that up there, it appears to be peaceful and orderly and it makes us feel that way. Perhaps you've been out and sit on a quiet evening, night and darkness falls and look up at the stars on a clear night and perhaps you are the moon and perhaps you felt or experienced what we're talking about. That order appears up there because there's law up there. This  man  is  emphasizing law, well just stay here and listen.

	First there's creation, then there's freedom. Creation falls under law. Freedom comes and creation can break laws, can escape laws. Why? How is creation able to escape the law of creation that holds creation down or holds creation in check? That law that holds the sun in check is the law that the human being has broken and mastered. Do you know that? Gravity holds the earth in check and gravity holds the sun in check. Man has broken gravity. The man has been able to escape creation because he has come in contact with something superior to creation.

	What did he come in contact with that was superior to creation? It was the knowledge of creation. The knowledge of creation enables you to master creation. Knowing the nature, the power, being able to identify the power and then knowing the nature of those powers gives man a superior knowledge over the creation and he then can break laws, can escape the gravitational pull and what not that he was before under and helplessly under. We see in this, victory of the human being, of the mind. A message from creator.

	That message is that he didn't intend for man, for human beings to be ruled by law. That's why when Jesus came, he began to interpret the wisdom of G-d that had been given to prophets before his time. Remember, Jesus didn't come with any new religion. Jesus preached the same religion that the other prophets preached. Jesus didn't claim to have any new G-d and new revelation of religion. Jesus had the same law, the same spirit of religion, the same righteous teaching that all the other prophets had.

	When he spoke, most of the words that came from his mouth were words that had already been written in the old testament. In fact, he hardly ever would speak unless he would verify it by saying "You have read in the prophets" or "You have read in the law." If you want to be a disbeliever, there's nothing I can say or do to make you a believer. The bible tells you that man is redeemed by his own faith so you have to save yourself. All we can do is tell you what can save you and it's up to you to grab it and save yourself.

	But Jesus saved people; read it again, brother. Jesus said "Go away, your faith has saved you." Your faith has saved you, not my faith has saved you. You have to have some faith yourself. Even after being successful with a few that he performed miracles on, and he never performed a miracle without giving G-d the credit for it. Even being successful in performing those miracles, he still put it to the weakness of miracles. He didn't teach us to believe in miracles. He taught us to believe in truth.

	Among those that were cured, some turned back right away before they even got out of the sight of Jesus, Jesus was telling them that; though the powers and the word to convert and it can change a person but that change may be temporary. It's up to the person to stick with what they've gotten. Jesus said "I did not come to destroy the law but to fulfill." We say the same thing today. Laws are necessary, they are a necessary step in the development of people but once you are born out of the womb of law, then you can stand up and look down on law just as man rises up from the physical gravity and look down on that law that was held him.

	Likewise, when we are born out of the body of law, we're able to look down on those laws and write new laws superior to them or ignore them altogether. Can you ignore a law? Certainly, I can ignore a law. If you travel a certain route so long and know exactly where every stop sign is and every red light is, they can take down those stop signs and red lights tonight and tomorrow you can stop the same way you've been stopping all the time without having the law there before your eyes telling you when and where to stop.

	Why, because you have learned the law. You have gotten the law a habit into yourself and you don't need any signs anymore or any written command that's telling you what to do. You are law in your own being. That's what Jesus is trying to tell his followers, when he was telling them that he didn't come to destroy the law but to fulfill the law. The fulfillment of the law is that you should be born a body independent of law and yet a body that won't break law. I hope you can understand what I'm saying.

	The lowest of the people, they follow creation. The next step up is to follow law. There are some people that are so low, in intellectual or mental development, that they can't follow a law, they've got to break a law. Go to jail every week, still got to break that law. They didn't think about the consequence of breaking the law, still got to break it. Lose his wife, lose his home, lose his family, still got to break that law. Must this be? no. People that can't follow law are people that are dead to their natural form.

	Something has taken them out of their natural form. It's nature to respect law. Tell me a stone won't obey the law of gravity, a tree will obey the law of gravity and a human being who has more freedom, more wisdom and more mobility, 

PART 1B
more independence than a stone and a tree cannot recognize and respect law. A man with a brain doesn't have the sense to observe a thing that's important for his survival, that an animal has or that a stone has. Something's wrong with that kind of reasoning.

	Something unnatural has to happen to you, brothers and sisters, to blind you to the benefits and to the worth value of law and when that happens, you are just destroyed. You can't respect anything.

	People who cannot recognize law, they are called in the Bible a donkey people. The  donkey. The book tells us that the Christ, when he comes in his glory to present himself as the Christ, he will come riding a donkey.

Jesus said to his disciples, "Go and you will see a donkey untied. Bring him here. If someone should question you, tell them, 'The   master has use for him or has need of him.’" You read these things, but you can't get these goodies because you don't have the meaning that goes with the words.
It's not because you're dumb. It's because you're blind. A blind person may be as intelligent as any other person, but you put the newspaper before them and they can't read it because the eyes are not open. Open the eyes and they read with the intelligence that they possess.
All right, just bear with me. The Bible says that there will come a time when people would have the word of G-d but it will be the same as though they did not have it at all. The book refers to this time as a time of total darkness covering the whole earth. Not physical darkness.  Mental  darkness. If you are dark in your mind, you are dark in your morality. Any person who can't see mentally, they can't see morally. The result is the world is filled with sin too. Is that right?

I'm not talking about any sanctimonious sin. I'm talking about this real sin that we see and suffer from and have suffered under ourselves for nearly four centuries, Big  sin. The book says that in that time, when this time comes, and it seems as though this darkness that would come over the world and shut out the vision from the scriptures so that they can't read it was something that was intended, Something that was planned. Because the book says that the prophet was told to seal the word. Seal means to cover. Lock up. Close. Protect, so others can't get it.  All right, just take your time.
Don't go too fast. You might leave me. I am not going to leave you. That same Bible says that in that time people will be going around with the book, with the scripture, and they'll come to one man. They say, "Read this for me." Doesn't mean read it, it doesn't mean verbalize it. It means give me the meaning, give me the message that's here. If I stand up to you and read the Holy Qur'an you would call it reading. Actually I haven't read anything to you if I read that Holy Qur'an to someone who doesn't know Arabic in Arabic. I haven't read the Holy Qur'an to you. I have recited the Holy Qur'an to you. I have verbalized the Holy Qur'an to you. I haven't read the Holy Qur'an to you until I reach your mind with understanding. You know what I'm saying. Can you say a person is talking when he's  babbling. He's not talking. He's making noise. If someone could give you the meaning of that babbling, then you'd say he's talking.

	All right, the book says that in that time the people will be going around with the scripture and they will carry it to a man and say, "Mister, will you read this with me?" He'll say, "I'm not learned. I'm not learned. I can't read it." Carry it to another and say, "Read this for me." He'll say, "I can't. It's sealed, Can't read it because it's sealed." This is very important what I'm telling you. Not only important to a preacher, the one who's interested in the Bible and interested in religion, but because you have fallen under the sleep of Bible language and of Christian atmosphere. It's important to you to know how you came under this sleep. That's why we talk to you about it. Not because we think you are so religious or so Christian. That we need to talk to you about these things. We know that your problems are connected one to another. At the root of your problems is the Christian concept of religion and Bible teaching.

	Don't think we do this just because we want you to accept G-d and to believe and be righteous and sanctimonious, No indeed. That's up to you. See, a man is not obligated to make another man or another person accept his knowledge. He can only offer it. He's not obligated to force it on anybody. A man is obligated to pull another man out of the fire when he sees that man burning and the man get himself out of the fire. Is that right or wrong? We are obligated to pull you out of the fire. We are obligated to pull you to safety. We're not obligated to walk with you all the rest of your life.

	We go into this Bible because we're obligated to pull you out of the fire! It’s this so called scripture teaching that you've been feeding on in the atmosphere of America that has burnt your brains up. Do we see any signs today of the survival of that meaning for donkey? That donkey means the ignorant. People who don't have the intelligence or the guidance to direct themselves, or even the mental vision or mental knowledge to respect direction when it's given to them. Do we have a surviving thing or word that will help us see that this was the original meaning? Jesus used it that way. I can convince any Bible scholar that that's the meaning if he doesn't already understand it.

	To help you along, brother and sister, look at the symbol of the Democratic Party that our people have become labeled under. The symbol democratic party is a donkey. What does that symbol mean in their language? It means the same thing it means in Bible language. It means that we represent the donkey people. We represent those that can't guide themselves. We have to guide them. They call it the working people. That's another name for the slaves .It’s  Just a sophisticated slavery.

	Oh this man is against work. No, I'm not against work. I love work. Work is necessary to acquirement of live. To work is a necessary requirement of life. I am against mechanical work. I am against people being in a factory and working like pieces in a metal machine with no sense of the value of their labor, no sense of the value of the products that are being put out by their labor, and no sense of the importance of their work and their being in the society to get out and collect themselves together and then decide how we're going to use our labor force to get some results from those on high. They need someone else to sit on them like Jesus sat on the donkey .Someone to guide them into the way.

	The donkey  masses. The Christ comes to these donkey masses and there's something in the book that tells us that somebody had already been  possessing them. That clue in the book that lets us know that the donkey masses were already the possessions of somebody is that rope that was on that donkey. See, donkeys don't put ropes on themselves. You know that, don't you? You've been so spooked up I have to stop and ask you a lot of simple questions.

	The one that Jesus came after had already been captured and was possessed by somebody else. Jesus comes to take the possession away from somebody else. Unless you accept the understanding that G-d gives us, and I mean the understanding that I give you from this rostrum that Almighty G-d. Unless you accept this understanding, you are reading a corrupt book. A book that's not fit to not only be in your church, it's not fit to be in your bed, and you know how nasty your bed gets some of you. Not fit to be in the bed with you if you don't accept the right understanding.

	You want me to review a few things  that's  in the Bible? The Bible accuses prophets of getting drunk, going with their own daughters.  Accuses  prophets  of plotting against their best friends, getting him killed so he can get his wife.  Accuses  prophets  of lying in the name of G-d.  Accuses   prophets  of going out at night looking for whores, prostitutes.  Accuses   prophets  of doing all the things that men are sent to jail and to prison, to the chair, and to the gallows for. Now if you accept that Bible like that, what good is it to you? Oh it's still good. It's holy. It shows how bad a man can be and yet G-d will stand by him. You ain't got no sense at all. That's just like saying the mother or the father picked the worst child in the family to show that child how much he or she loves him or her. That's stupid.

	Is that justice to the good children? To pick a sinner,  a  notorious sinner, to lead others. Is that justice to the good people? What reward do I get for my goodness?  For beating back or warding off the temptation to take another man's wife or to kill that man to get his wife ?  What reward do I get for avoiding these great crimes if a prophet is going to be rewarded with being called a leader of the people and commit those crimes? Again, brother and sister, what kind of an example does that set for sinners?

	The man who's weak this morning. The pressure of bills is on him. Debt is speaking in his head and he knows the consequences that's coming behind pretty soon. They're going to take his home or take his car or maybe lock him up in jail. He reads a book where the Israelites were told to steal from the Egyptians and he says, "Well hell, they weren't suffering anymore then than I'm suffering now." Then he reads about the trials of the prophets and he identifies his miseries with the misery of that man. Saying, "Look he went with his own daughter." You don't understand. These are not true stories, brothers and sisters. These are lessons in the Bible. The lesson is this: That the man and woman never commit a sin too big that G-d doesn't have a big enough mercy and compassion in his being to wipe it out and forgive it if you are willing to change. That's the message in those stories.

	Prophets are really given, pardon me. They are used to describe their people. Not the prophet did these things, but the people did these things. David didn't commit those sins, but those people that David led, those people that David ruled over committed those sins. G-d didn't forgive the prophet directly, but he forgives the people directly because of the goodness of the prophet. Here you have in the scriptures people and prophets put under one picture and the picture that identifies the whole kingdom and the whole people is the prophet. We read the Bible and the church never corrects us. Let us all thinking that chose people who did these great sins against Him and against their fellow man and let them go on ruling and leading the people.

	He punished David. That's true. He did punish David. Did that punishment justify or correct what David had done? He punished Noah; punished Lot, but did it make up for what had been done? No. He punishes us too and that's all it means. That when you commit a great wrong against yourself, against society, which is also against yourself, you pay for it. If you're willing to reform, correct your ways, and go in the right direction, G-d has room in his mercy and his forgiveness to accept you and just wipe out your bad record. That's all it means.

	Okay I don't want you to be going around here with the wrong idea about prophets. You will never find me killing anybody to get their money or to get their wife or going with someone that I shouldn’t be going with, and I'm not a prophet. If my righteousness in me is strong enough to protect me from those great sins, then that makes me superior to those prophets that you worship. I see G-d send a  witness  bearer, he let the sun shine on me. You just have patience with us and we're going to bring you  out  of  a dead religion into a living religion.

	A donkey people. Let's think on the donkey a little bit to get more understanding. A donkey is an animal that goes with his head down. You never see a donkey walking like a horse with his head up. Horse walks his head up, paces his head up. Donkey goes with his head down. He got big ears, seeming as though he should be the best hearing animal around, but he can't hear. His ears must don't mean very much to him, most of the time those ears flopping. One this way, they ain't no order to them at all. One flop that way, one up, you see. He looks like something on his mind all the time. Never matters if it has any sense at all.

	Just one thing on the donkey, this word that they put in the Bible to describe the masses that we today typify. We are that type. In the end of the world everything grows to fullness. See there were donkeys way back. But that donkey in the fullness of the world, is fuller, that is, bigger, than all other donkeys. They were devils all the way back, but that devil in the fullness of the world is bigger than all other devils, do you understand? All right let's keep on. Let's see.

	What else did we learn about this donkey ? The donkey is stubborn. That horse is obedient. Man rides that horse, that horse carries. I heard my brother say, he knows more about horses than I do, Brother Herbert Muhammad, he say a horse will run til he drops obeying his master. That donkey, you never know when he's going to quit. He might work himself to death and he might quit before you get him going two feet. You get on him and say, "Let's go donkey." He takes one or two steps, stops. You hit him, he's given up. No, no! Now he knows there's a superior riding his back. He knows his master can starve him to death, can leave him out of the barn, can shoot him in his head, but he's going to bluff the master. He just don't respect authority. Master have to beat him crazy almost. Many times he beat him to death. He just die there, won't move.

	Now any human being you get fulfilling the description of a donkey is a human being that has had something unnatural done to his mind. It's not natural to act that way brothers and sisters. You may say, "Well why does the donkey act that way if it's not natural?" It's because the donkey is unnatural and G-d made him and left him there as a sign to you. When you get unnatural there'll be a sign to tell you what has happened to you. The book says that G-d has filled the heavens and the earth with signs and these signs are to awaken the intelligence and to direct it. They are the best food for the mind if you get in contact with them.

	Why should you, now, be addressed in this special way by us? How come we are so anxious to talk to black Americans about G-d today? Why are you so important to talk to about G-d? Why don't we just address the general public? We could do that. Don't think we can't do it. Don't think we just have to talk to a black people. If we want to we can get on the radio, we can get on TV, we can talk to the city, we can go to European  communities and talk to the Europeans. Why for 40-odd years we come to you? Because you are special. Why am I special in the eyes of G-d? Because somebody has separated you from your natural relationship with your creator.

	A bad child can disrespect his parents, can even curse his parents, walk away from his parents, and his parents say, "I'm not going after him. Forget it." The boy or girl has gone crazy. Don't respect me anymore at all. Forget it. You don't feel that it's just that you should go out there after that kind of child. Is that right? If somebody comes and kidnap your child, oh your heart is upset. You ready to go and kill somebody. Is that right? Because now, they didn't leave me, my children didn't leave me. Some man or some woman has taken my child from me. Do you understand the difference?

	The Caucasian world and the Jewish world and all the rest of the world have been disobedient children. You have been a kidnapped child, so G-d is compelled to go after you, and you just don't understand. You read the history of the Jews and their suffering in the Bible and you see wherein it's said that G-d answered the suffering of the Jews. Your suffering outweighs all their suffering. Not just the Jews, but everybody else's suffering in the world. With the suffering of all the people in the world on one side of the scale, in the balance, and your suffering on the other side of the scale and the balance, your suffering outweighs the suffering of the whole world. Many of you are going sit in the church. You get the spirit and the holy ghost and shout, falling out of your seats and throwing your money to the preacher. Weeping and moaning and crying over the suffering of people in the book. With no knowledge, no sense, no recognition of your own suffering, that you have suffered more than all those people in the book put together.

	They weren't kidnapped. They just disobeyed. The Jew was were kidnapped, Mister. Read the book again. G-d sent them into captivity for their rebellious, stiff-necked ways. According to the book, you, brother and sister, you were minding your own business. You had grown rich and powerful in Africa and in Asia. That is, Asia Minor. You were minding your own business. You weren't motivated by greed, by a starving deep appetite for money. You were walking around in Africa with gold for a walking cane. Gold for a bracelet. Gold for a hat. Some of our women had gold earrings so big that it pulled the ear all out of shape. They had to tie the ear up to keep the earrings up. I'm telling you facts from history. Oh we didn't have no gold when we were in Africa. The gold that's here came from Africa!

	Europe went to Africa and got your gold. Because of them getting your gold, and the newcomers, the pioneers of America getting the Indians' gold, they became rich with gold. You had more gold than the Indian and everybody else. You had so much gold that gold was play toys in your hands. Gold was trinkets for the children and the women to play with. "I don't believe that." Well, donkey, I don't care what you believe.

	I got silly donkeys writing me letters thinking they can hurt my spirit. "I don't believe in you. I'll never believe in you. You are wrong. You won't last long. I'll get you. He'll get you, or they'll get you." Keep on wishing and dreaming fools. Somebody already got me. And nobody else is getting me. I was gotten before you saw me. When you saw me somebody already had me. If that someone hadn't had me  you  would  never have seen me. You go on and pray and hope and scheme and plot and think your evil thoughts all you want to. You won't  hurt  nobody but yourself. I feel sorry for you. That don't mean I wouldn't bust your head if you came up to me.

	Hey, brothers and sisters, I'm not joking. I feel sorry for them, but I don't care, as long as it wasn't a child.

Part 2a
IWDM:	If that evil sister could come up here today and tell me what she said in that letter, I'd pick up this thing here and slam it right down on her head. Why would I do that? Because though she deserves sympathy and pity, she doesn't deserve to be excused. I wouldn't excuse her, I'd bust her side her head. And it'd be up to G-d to save her and give her another chance on life.

	Oh, I know you're not a religious man, I know he's not a Christ-like man. Christ would never do nothing like that. Well, you never known Christ. The same Christ that came in the world and showed mercy, compassion, long-suffering, put up with abuse. According to your Bible he is to come back and he's going to be feared. He's going to shed so much blood until his gum is going to red. The book says blood was stained with the juice of the grape, is that right? Then he shall slay the wicked. That's what the book say Christ would do on his second appearance. Well I'm not the first appearance brother, I'm the second appearance.

	Thank you. The second time around, he is giving love and mercy and charity where it's supposed to go, that he will come on  the second time around and he will reprove the righteous, but punish the wicked. Have no mercy on them. That won't be mercilessness, that'll be justice. Came to you with kindness and love and charity, and you took it and twisted it around and used the beautiful liberating message that I gave you to enslave the world, so you can sit over there as a slave master. You use the same life giving teaching that I gave to you to destroy their brains, to turn their hearts against themselves and make them helpless worshipers of you. Now on the second time around should I have mercy on you? No, I should give you justice.

	You can't reason with law and justice unless you have knowledge brothers and sisters. You have punished the wrong people, because you've been made unnatural in your mind and in your thinking. I've never seen black women caring for black children with the devotion, and sacrifice, and love, that I've seen them caring for white children. I've seen black women pushing their babies ... I'm not talking about something I heard, I say I've seen. Black people ... women pushing their little babies in the baby carts. Busy streets, they use the baby to stop the traffic. Push them out there to make you stop. Then I've seen black women stand on the curb with a white baby in the buggie and don't dare step off the curb until everything has moved out of the street. You would think it was little child that's been told to stand on the curb until the light change. Doing that to protect that white baby.

	Something unnatural has happened in your life, and it happened in America. You don't find that anywhere else unless there is an American Caucasian or a man with that kind of mentality ruling over the people there. You just don't find people unnatural like that on the planet earth, except right here in this country. Killing each other over a hamburger. I'm talking about what I've read, I got the clipping at home right now, "Black man beats the other black man to death with his fist because he bit off of his hamburger." Those devils brothers and sisters, who want to keep you down, they know the disease in you. They make those violent movies showing black burning up each other, shooting up each other, wasting each other for nothing.

	They know they are feeding the disease in you, that will make you go out and repeat the same thing that before was nothing but fiction. It had no real reality in your life. We had dope pushers in our community ... black dope pushers in our community ... but they wasn't around killing each other up ... dropping each other down the sewers ... burning each other body's up. They weren't doing these things until somebody wrote fiction and gave it to us and our community, and then we acted that fiction out and it became real in our lives.

	You better wake up. If I don't, what's going to happen mister? I've been doing all right. Time is ticking out on your freedom brothers. You're going to look around and we going to grab you and snap your donkey head off your body.

	So we are a people born out of creation and our real identity is seen in our mind nature, and mind makeup. That's where the person is seen. Not in his flesh makeup. And we come under law just as flesh and all the creation comes under law. And we develop higher and higher and wisdom and knowledge and understanding of the physical world. And this development is brought about because of a reasoning process in our mind. We're able to reason and weigh this with that. Take the better and push aside the worse. Take the light and reject the darkness. Take sense  and reject foolishness.

	Because we're given this reasoning, or rational process, in our mind we're able to move up higher and higher and eventually break the pull of gravity and then stand back and look on the law ... say, "I think I'll write a new one better."

	The Holy Quran says, "Any law that we wish to get rid of, or to alter, or to change for a better one, we do it." Why? Because law wasn't meant to rule us. We were made to rule both creation and law. Well what should rule you then, Mr. Mohammed? Truth should rule me. Truth liberates you, then you should be grateful to truth for liberating you and respond to truth. Obey truth. Submit to truth. And G-d is the strongest truth there is. 

	So you to obey and worship G-d first. You are also to respect all truth. And don't violate or disrespect the truth.

	I was asked, if man and flesh ... or if the flesh is not G-d, then what should I think of when I'm praying? What should I focus my eyes on when I'm praying? I said, "Truth." When you're praying, you're looking for direction. A man that's driving through the city ... once he knows the object of his trip, he keeps his mind’s eye on the object. Is that right? And he pursues or followed that direction until he arrives at his object. The problem in our lives is falsehood, Lies and falsehood. The direction of our movement should be towards truth. So when you pray ... when you seek help from G-d, focus your mind on truth and you'll be focusing your mind’s eye on the right thing.

	But is G-d truth? Yes. The Book says, "He is the light. He is the truth." The Holy Quran says huwal-haqq which means He is the truth. Not a truth, but the truth. And He wears all of His truth like you wear clothes. And if you want to see the presence of G-d, keep looking at truth.

	That's heavy for me, man. No it's not. You just light for it. It's easy to understand.

	Creation manifests Law. Laws manifests rational activity in the brain. The man begins to watch the nature of creation ... seeing how laws operate in creation. This is what turn his brain wheels over and starts them to rolling. And he becomes a rational being. Being able to weigh things and reason. Before he comes in to this form, he is a creature ruled by fear of creation. Superstitions can take him over and make him a slave. He fears the thunder and lightning and have weird dreams ... nightmares. He fears the wolf call in the dark. And have nightmares. He fears the storm and think that it's a spooky occurrence that has come to punish him. I'm talking about primitive superstitious man.

	But once he begins to study the nature of the creation, his mind begins to weigh the heavy with the light. The something with the nothing. He rejects the light for the heavy ... throws away the nothing for the something. Is that right? And in this process ... following this process ... pretty soon tell his children keep quiet. Just raining ... just thundering. The thunder's caused by the rushing of hot air in on cool air. When the two meet, they cause a vacuum. And the air rushes back into the vacuum after the heat is gone, and that's what you hear son. Only the sky can clap hands a little bit louder than that.

	So, he's able to explain these things to his children. Am I right? Because he has gotten knowledge of the operation ... how the nature and creation operate. And he has been reasoning and weighing fact against foolishness.

	So the creature's born out of the ground just like a plant, or anything else, but that man stands up out of the ground and takes form in a body called Law. And in that Law, he becomes moral conscious. The Law creates in him a moral consciousness. He begins to think of himself as being too high, too dignified, for the low things that he just a minute ago was doing. He begins to value himself ... I'm talking about the natural process Brothers and Sisters. He begins to value himself and he says, "I called the dog, the dog come to me. Dog don't call me and I come to him. So, I'm going to get up off my all fours and walk like a man. Stop walking around and barking like a dog." Is that right?

	He look at everything and he questions his service that he's given to those things. "Why should I serve animals when I am Master? They must serve me. Why should I fear the physical environment when I have learned the nature of it? I have the knowledge of it. I am able to make plans and bring those plans out and overcome the forces of nature. I've pushed back the jungle. I've turned wastelands into fertile lands ... and fertile lands into wastelands. I dig out the earth and make a natural lake. I make canals. Why should I now fear this physical environment?”

	Now the man this kind of a talk in this late time, he made it when he began to see how to do those things. He didn't have to wait until he did it. Once he knew he could do it, he said, "I'm going to stop this childish game of living in a world of dark fear superstition." So out of that darkness now, the man comes. But nobody comes into the darkness and brings him out. He has a light within him. I've heard Master speak about the lightning bug. He said, "The lightning bug has its light with it." And that's true. He doesn't have eyes to see in the dark but he has light.

	Out of the law body, we grow into the rational body. Moral rationale. And we come out of that and we grow still further out of that rational body, and we grow into what we call the body of truth. This is the final body that G-d wants us to take form in. Truth. What do we mean by truth? We mean exactly what we are saying.

	Ideas, words, messages ... ideas through your mind creates you in the physical body.

	So, if you take those truths then you're going to be created after the likeness, and after the nature, and in the form of that truth that you take on. Does that make sense to you?

	If you feed on dog knowledge, you're going to become a dog, brother. If you feed on grafted knowledge, you're going to become a grafted person. But if you feed on truth, you're going to become a G-d-like person. And by G-d-like we don't mean spooky person.

	I'm not going hold you too much longer. Should be letting you go in about 20 or 30 minutes. You don't have any excuse to walk away from this. Even if you don't respect what I'm telling you, you should respect our respect. Many around you respect what I'm telling you. So much so until they will stay here until the sun rise to morning if I stay here talking.

	And I'm not here for money. I don't have to come here for money. There probably was a time when they could charge us with teaching our people for money but they can't in this day and time. I've received invitations from Asia and Africa, and the Caribbean to come there and teach. I received an invitation from the Arabs to come to them. And you know they got more money in this day and time than anybody else, I believe. So, if I wanted to follow money, I'd go with the oil-rich Arabs are and ask them, "Can you use my talent?" But they don't have enough oil, or enough money from that oil, to attract me from you.

	Mister, do you love us that much? No. I love Allah that much. I love the G-d, and the creator of the heavens and the earth that much. And because I love Him, I have to obey Him. And he say, "Do the thing that's right and just, and reject the thing that's wrong and unjust though it may profit you in material wealth." So I'm obeying my maker. Not because I love you this much. The way you treat me, I shouldn't love you that much.

	Now that sister that said, "Yes", I love her that much because I felt her love in her yes. And as a Christ say, "He would go after one." I most certainly would go all the way across the world ... walking if I have to ... if I thought that sister had no way continue her understanding and needed help. Believe it or not. But still in yet, that love for her is not love that originated in me independent of something else. That love is planted by the Almighty G-d. If we truly love each other, it's not because of ourselves, it's because that we recognize something greater and superior to ourselves.

	I know you want to hear me talk about money and big jobs. This nation wasn't made like that. This nation was made because somebody by the name of the honorable Elijah Muhammad, had the faith in what he was doing to talk to you about righteousness.

	No matter what you charge him with, I'm a living witness that he never put down the teachings of righteousness ... Told you to do what is righteous and just ... To love yourself and respect yourself. When he gave his last speech ... public speech ... he said, "This I say from my heart, respect everybody." And they said, "Oh, he's teaching something new. Want us to respect the white man as equal or human being with us."

	The Honorable Elijah Muhammad said, "Respect everybody." And the way he worded it he let you know he was saying a new thing. Never before has he said, "This I say from my heart.", because he didn't feel it was necessary to tell you, "This I say from my heart." But when he's asking you to respect and accept white people if they come in acting intelligently and respect and accept you. You know he had to put emphasis on that and he had to appeal to your emotion to get you to accept even what he had to say.

	Don't have to tell me ... you can't tell me ... around here lying to yourself. Using a dead man as an excuse for your selfish ignorance. That's not what he taught. Fool, you know what he taught but you never did accept all that he taught. You just accepted what he taught that you liked.

	Creation manifests laws. Laws manifest knowledge because men when they set in laws, they get the knowledge of creation. And then the reasoning, the rational mind ... if you follow the pure straight line of unselfish reasoning, you're going to arrive at truth. Impossible for you to miss it. G-d has put reasoning in our makeup so that it will help us arrive at truth. If you follow it, without letting yourself become selfish, or weak, you're going to find truth.

	It's when the man see the rational process presenting something that he is too weak to accept, that's when go and alter the formula and make false reasoning the thing that he follow. He change the natural true reasoning process into a false reasoning process and justified wrong with something that appears to be a process of righteousness ... of truth. You know how we can twist the truth in our minds and come up with a lie that light enough for our weak mind to carry. We saw the heavy truth, but it's too much for the muscles of our weak mind. So we say, "Oh, I better work it this way and arrive at this lie. Because I am still using the reasoning process, it's true." That's what we do brothers and sisters.

	That kind of lying to yourself is identified in Genesis as the snake that creeped up on Eve and whispered lies into the weakness of Adam. The weakness of Adam, which is Eve. And Eve means the flesh, and the flesh appetite. So that snake comes up and whispers to the weakness of the flesh and its appetite. Then Adam, the will power in you, which is called Adam, starts listening to it because it's been putting up a bad fight ... a long fight ... he's tired. Real tired of trying pull the mind and the flesh in the direction of truth. So the will say, "Well hell, I'm sleepy now." What'd you say? Okay, I accept it.

	So Adam listened to Eve, who listened to the snake. And he accepted the word from his flesh that came from his lying of mental processes. His mind has gone off from the natural way of arriving at truth and had blinded its ownself to the truth and came up with a process to establish a lie of truth, and give it to the mind as truth. When that was done, the flesh right away accepts it because the flesh wants to do something right away. The flesh has no will power in it. Is that right?

	Accept the will power of your own self. You see? So the flesh accepted right away, and the flesh began to talk to the mind ... to the will of the man, or of the woman, and pretty soon they both accept it, and they fall ... they die. As the Book say, "They both die." Is that right? Adam and Eve die.
	Now we know that this was done according to the Genesis story, and Adam and Eve both lived. They didn't die physically. We still read about their life after this was done. But G-d had said ,"In the day that you do this, you will surely die." Church has an interpretation like this ... they mean that they didn't die themselves, but the righteousness died. They fell in to sin and all of the generations after them died. That's true. That is true.

	But we are not talking about two people. We are talking about two functions, natural principles that work in your own human nature. In every individual, there is a snake, Adam and Eve. This same three-in-one principle is told to you in the last part of the Bible as three-in-one G-d. Jesus never taught that lie. Paul didn't talk that lie. After it was drafted and given to them by un-G-dly Jews.

	I'm not going to waste time with you. Take it back to your boss. And tell your boss to deal with it. If he can't deal with it, tell him to take it to his boss, and go on up to the Pope of Rome. And if he can't deal with it, tell him to come here to his boss. I'm his boss.

	And if he came to see me, I wouldn't have him back out like this. You know when that Pope ... they go see the Pope, they bend over like this ... and they can't turn their back to the Pope. They have to back out like this ... until they get away from the Pope and then they stand up and walk away, you see. He's supposed to be the embodiment of G-d on Earth, ruling in the absence of the Heavenly Father, and in the absence of His son, Christ. Well, tell him Christ is back now. He can give up the throne.
Part 2b
	The human society does not grow until it comes out of bondage to law. Law will only hold you in check. If you want a progress, you have to become educated enough understand the law, the purpose of the law, the value and place of the law and then yourself be able to live independent of the law, as a rule over you.
	That's why a people, who are living in another people, can never become independent of that people until they first master the knowledge and the laws of that people and come up with better laws, better knowledge for themselves. Then they're able to step out onto a better law and become independent of the people they were once living in. This is history, is that right? All right.

	If you want to grow, the first thing you have to do is take on life up here [point to the mind]. Now, if you want to be little children, you don't have to worry about running this up here. You can just keep this alive right here, [ the body ] that's enough. You will be little children, and G-d will protect you because you'll be innocent, but you will stay little children. In order for you to make progress and become adults, you have to become alive here [point to the mind].

	When you look at the growth in the earth, don't you see things growing out of the earth from the ground upwards? All right, you're alive in your feet, you're alive in your stomach. Some people get alive in the stomach and stop right there. No compassion, no mercy, no sympathy, no love. Nothing but appetite to digest others and other people's goods. Their growth stops right in the stomach.

	Then you've got people who grow on up until they reach the heart. They're able to check the appetites of the stomach because they don't feel it's right to feed the stomach a grape or a hamburger, or killing a man or a woman, to satisfy that hunger. So they say, "well, stomach you just have to wait for the hamburger. I'm not going to kill this person to get it." That's because something has grown up here, right? That growth has reached the heart.

	Then you've got men whose growth rise above the heart and reach the eyes. They're able to see and question what people do and what they do. They're able to question the heart, but they, they just have eyes, you see?

	Then some people grow until they reach the intelligence, and they are not able just to see but they are able to understand. The book says "above all get an understanding." And an understanding is truth. You can have knowledge and still have part truth, but when you know that nature and place and workings of that knowledge in this creation, then you have understanding, and that's whole truth. When you get that truth, you will indeed be free.

	What kind of freedom it is that you want, brother and sister? You want the freedom to pick up a pork chop and eat it, or get you a bucket of chitterlings and eat it. That's why you don't want to follow up in Islam, because we tell you, "Don't eat the pork." You want that freedom to continue to eat the pig.

	An overgrown rat, that's all a pig is. A big freak rat that doesn't even have the sense and the decency of the rat. And science says that the pig is an intelligent animal, he's only ignorant in his conduct but he's intelligent, isn't that what they say? Yeah, they say that the pig is an intelligent animal. But you, you're an intelligent animal too. But many of you are pigs in your conduct. And you want the freedom to keep eating it and that's why you don't want to join? If that's your only excuse then you come over here. I'll ween you off pork.

	The idea of freedom that was given to this world is not freedom, it's suicide. Gradual self destruction. When we think of freedom we mean freedom to not obey our parents, freedom means I don't have to go and obey mamma and dad no more. That's not freedom, that's self destruction. Freedom means I don't have to respect the laws of society anymore. That's not freedom that's self destruction. Freedom means I can do what I want and don't have to answer to anybody anymore. That's self destruction. Somebody will bust your brains out pretty soon. You just can't go out like that in the world and not be checked. You have to have respect for other people, you have to have respect for other ways of life. You have to have respect for the good of the whole society. And if you don't have that kind of respect for freedom, your freedom is no freedom at all it's only self destruction.

	What is freedom? Freedom is taking charge of ones self, that's freedom. I'll repeat that for you three times. Freedom is taking charge of ones self. One more time, freedom is taking charge of ones self brother and sister, and if you don't have the power to take charge of yourself, you're not ready for freedom. And if you're not ready for freedom then stay under the written law and obey that written law. Unless you're able to follow the law blindfold without the law being present then you better give up freedom and live under the law.

	A people driven to self destruction. It's a shame. You drink to have a good time. You get drunk and call it a good time. You waste your rent money and call it having a good time. You deny your children and you call it a good time.

	The mind is so ordered, so constructed, so designed that if you don't follow truth, if you don't eat the food that all mighty G-d designed for your nature, that is truth. The mind will get out of its natural form and it will see things and false form. You will see happiness in false form. You will think happiness is happiness when that happiness that you will be pursuing will be sadness and misery and death.

	I want you now to, for a few minutes, follow me as I review quickly our own problems that we have as a people. We were captured and emptied of our cultural knowledge, our heritage. We were separated from tradition of our people, from the knowledge, from the tradition, from the life of our people. Being so thoroughly emptied we became empty vessels for another people to fill up with whatever they wanted to put in. And that's exactly what they did.

	This is not the first time that something like this had happened, but it hadn't happened to this extent. It had happened before, people had put corruption into minds, or into the tradition, into the knowledge, into the thoughts of other people. But they had not totally emptied the people of everything, and then put in all something foreign to that peoples nature and well being, until they got you and me. The book says that they have put the wine of fornication into the sacred vessels. This is a symbolic description of corrupting ... of how people corrupt the minds of other people. By feeding their minds with things that will make them mentally drunk.

	The book says again that G-d charged the people with robbing him a whole people. This means the taking of the body from its natural place and putting it in a place foreign to itsself. And then raising it in the absence of its own history. Making it think that it has no context outside of the life, the miserable life that it was put into. That's what happened to you and me. We were totally emptied brothers and sisters. We use to sit in movies and watch Tarzan slaughter Africans and laugh. Here, Tarzan’s victory of the Africans. We use to sit in the movies and watch the Africans do their dance and just laugh. And if the African was there to look at who was laughing, he'd say "good G-d." He'd cry, he'd shed tears. Look at this pitiful fool. Here is a pork chop eating, wine drinking, money wasting, home destroying, silly nut. Black as any African was on the screen. Laughing at a black skinned African and a kinky haired African because he hadn't seen nothing on the screen that the white man said was okay to respect but a white man.

	So they throw him on the screen he laughs. In his true conscience he wasn't laughing at the African brother and sister, he was laughing at himself. Look at Tarzan get them niggers. Get them niggers Tarzan. Look at them stupid niggers. It's hard to look in the mirror and laugh at yourself  but you can look at the image of yourself in another person and laugh at it. And most of the time those Africans that we were looking at were so called niggers from the streets of Harlem, Detroit. That's right. Hollywood take them and put them on the screen naked and crazy looking, have them do a dance and "babawhowubba ..." and we think they're Africans.

	I'm not saying that all Africans are so intelligent, so civilized that they don't fit that description. But most of them don't fit that description. But in those days and time most of us fit that description. Might not like to hear it but that's true. In that day and time brother and sister most of the black people fit that description. There were only a few wrestling, trying to come into a knowledge that will enable them to be self protecting. And they did manage. Men like Fredrick Douglass and others far back in history. Christopher Tucks he knew the value of freedom.

	And you can read a book called, I think it's called 'The Walker Appeal' the David Walker Appeal. And when you listen to that man in part ... parts of his judgments against the Caucasian world it sounds exactly like the teachings of the honorable Elijah Muhammad. But he was back there during the time when our people were still slaves.

	So we did manage to become self protective. But we couldn't redeem ourselves. And the book says that "man should save himself." For the Quran in many places says "save yourself," is that right? And the bible says it too, if you know how to read the bible. In fact in places it says it in plain language, that you should save yourself.

	To become self redeemed you need a new knowledge. See our people became self protective working with the old knowledge. But they only could go so far and so high. All their knowledge wasn't enough to make them independent. It wasn't enough to get the Caucasian people to recognize and respect us. It wasn't enough to make them feel that they have forced to be honest. Study the history for yourself brother and sister.

	We had learned men who was learned in the Caucasian’s grafted  knowledge. We had learned women who were learned in the Caucasian grafted knowledge. And these men and women of our people were able to bring us to the frontier of self defense. They made us self protective. We begin to speak out against the wrongs they were doing to us. We begin to criticize their conduct, their mind and their actions. But something was missing.

	The white man he looked and he say "yeah, Negros have gotten smart enough now to see that we are acting wrong. But they haven't got smart enough yet to see that our knowledge acts wrong." The man's knowledge was wrong. If you're living among thieves and murderers and kidnappers, and they have philosophy of life, and you pick up their philosophy of life to defend your life. You're only going to have as much life as they're willing to give you. And the best you can become is a member in the society of crooks and murderers; ain't that right or wrong?

	I hope you're following what I'm having to say to you today. So no matter how much our people studied and learned a strategy, under the white man’s teachings the best they could become was just a member in the society of a corrupt people. And being the weaker, not having the material resources, they are at the mercy of that people that they were in, is that right?

	Well I hope you can understand that brother and sister. The only thing that can make you self redeem. The only thing that can redeem you is for you to step outside of the man’s world. Look at his world. Analyze his world. Study his world from bottom to top. See what makes his world work. Not with a view of coming into his world but with a view of conquering his world.

	Then you come up with the powers of nature in your pocket. And you can say to your slave master, you can say "how you doing mister so and so, how're you doing?" You feel comparable. You don't feel like you have to throw out a word two miles long to impress mister so and so. I've got your life in my pocket.

	So for the first time under this influence of this wisdom from the Nation of Islam, established over 40 years ago. For the first time we able to stand before the white world and the white man's face and not show off. Try to impress him, would show off. We don't have to pretend superiority anymore.

	Are you saying mister that you are as wise as the wisest white man in this country? Wiser.

	Well then you can be a doctor, a lawyer, a surgeon, a mathematician, a judge, anything you want to be then. No, I can only be what I am. But I can make doctor, lawyer, mathematician, judge.

	How is it that you can make them but can't be one? Well a man with seeds can show you how to make a garden. He gives you the seeds and you can make a garden. He doesn't have to be a gardener. If I have the seeds I give them to you, you can make yourself a garden, is that right?

	Well we have the knowledge of how to create these personalities. How to create these minds. We don't have to be every one of these things we created. Do you think G-d is everything he created? No. G-d is creator.

	He's not a surgeon, but he knows how to create a surgeon. By providing the right environment, the right atmosphere for that surgeon’s mind to come to life in, is that right? And then supplying his mind with the necessary tools for forming that field of knowledge that produce the surgeon. Can you do that for us mister? Yes, G-d has given me that power. If you accept what I teach you, your mind will grow you into greater and greater dimensions. Your brain will grow and grow and grow. Your intelligence will grow, your mind will expand, and the things you were unable to do yesterday you will be able to do today and even greater tomorrow, believe it or not.

	The religion you have accepted brother and sister is a physical religion. They have people on television and the radio performing miracles on people, they come up in wheelchairs and walk away carrying or pushing the wheelchair. But how many of those miracle workers that you know in this world can have a man come up with a moral leg broken, with a moral eye put out, and he restore that eye and he walk away morally seeing. Restore his leg and he walk away morally upright; whole without the need for a chair.


	How many do you know? They say they can bless you with money, they can bless you with better relationship with your wife and your family, they can bless you with better physical health. How many do you find that can restore life to the limbs of the mind and to the vital organs of the mind? And say walk away brother and be successful in life, hence forth.

	Which now tell me, which is the greater miracle? Taking paralysis out of his jaw, or taking paralysis out of the mind? There are men that stepped up over nations that don't have the use of their leg. Some of them have gone blind, some of them don't have the use of their arms, but because their mind is whole and strong they are able to dictate the life of that nation and rule over it until their mind has passed out of this world.

	Miracle worker. Liar. Fake. Oh I know some of it's true. Well, there's enough lie in it to call it lie. I didn't say all of it was lie, G-d said that it's a lie. You don't have to have all chocolate in a chocolate bar to call it a chocolate bar. You might have a few nuts in it but it's a chocolate bar. And when you have more nuts than chocolate you call it a nut bar. Well there's more lies in that miracle working show they put on before your face and on TV and radio than there is truth. So it's a lie. G-d is not even with them. G-d is perhaps more with those people who come up asking for goodness, for help and miracles, than he is with those people who profess to work these miracles.

	Why? Because they don't have the sense to see that the real miracles that G-d works is not a miracle in your physical body, it's miracle within your mind and in your heart. Well, can't G-d bring people to him by healing their bodies? Yes, certainly. But that's not the great miracle. The great miracle is healing the vital part of you, your mind and your heart. That's the great miracle.

	So then if that's the great miracle, why should they pray up the lesser miracle? They need me on television, that's what they need. And they need me bringing brothers and sisters up who were silly and crazy and dead in their minds. Who were blind, deaf, and dumb in their minds. And this truth brought life again to their minds. And now they don't walk down the streets like drunkards. A man can be drunk in his mind and he can walk like a cripple. You seen these old hip people out there walking; flopping and can all out in the streets, don't they look like drunkards? But he's not under the influence of alcohol, he's under the influence of an alcoholic idea.

	There are men and women who step down and can't stand up from the streets to the pulpit. There are men and women who are sitting and can't stand up, because their minds are dead, their minds are weak, their minds are turned off to reality and truth. And when we come into their minds with this great life giving truth they get up and walk. They stop sitting down at home fussing at the wife and having her fuss at him, at them. And they get out and they bring wealth into the home and into the community.

	Do you think G-d made prophets to produce miracles on your flesh and didn’t make prophets to produce miracles in that that is more important to you than flesh, and that part is the part of you that rules over your flesh, your mind?

	Oh brother and sister, how blind we have been. How far we have been lead from the right way. We think that Jesus came, turning lepers back to their natural self again. Removing the white parts, the leprosy and bringing the physical eye back to the physically blind. Those are only symbolic language, symbolic talk brother and sister. Telling you of something even greater that he did. When one has leprosy he has something people regard as pure.
START HERE
Part 3a
…something that people regard as pure. In his skin, that is not purity but a disease. People way back thought white was pure. Now, it's not right to think that way, but they thought that way. They thought white was pure, and I think it resulted from people using white to write on. White scrolls, white paper. You see, it reveals the writing. Those religious people who writing always on white. They thought of the white as being pure. It shows up  the print. It shows up what you're putting on it.

	Then they thought of their garments. White garments show up the dirt of the Earth. You can how people can come into this kind of belief that white is pure. But if they stop accepting things on face value, and begin thinking and pondering over these things, they'll see that white dirt is black sometimes. A man with puke, a white maggots, a white pigeon dropping on him. Is he dirty, but white? All right!

	But you see, because we go off on the wrong track, we just lose sight, and we can't see straight, and we accept the first notion.

	So the white spots, the leprosy, that was a symbolic description of people who go about with a presentation, an appearance, of having...

	We find when we look and view the history of our people, that they have come through a history, and have come through a process. An experience that has moved them from one plane to another. From one way of life to another. There was one time when we were rebellious, but patient. That was when we were physically in bondage. We had the rebellious spirit. We didn't love what they were doing to us.

	Then they put Christianity on us, and it made us self sacrificing, like Jesus. Well we are doing this, this is Jesus like. This is Christ like to do this. Craul up on the cross, brother, help us, as the Lord did. Let them take the whole world! Let the whites have the whole world. You just take Jesus. Be crucified, bare it like Jesus bared it! Don't grumble, don't fight, don't curse your oppressor.

	There was a period that we came to where we were like that. And if anybody got out of order in the neighborhood, preachers would get on the radio, and preach that to the neighborhood! Black preacher. You must love your enemy! You must suffer peacefully! Christ loved those who persecuted Him, and ill treated Him! They crucified Him! And He would go into it, brother. They put a crown of thorns on His precious head, oh glory! They pierced His loving heart, oh glory! They nailed His feet, and left him there, but He loved them still!

	He'd go into it brother! Telling you to do the same thing. Now I know they just crucified a black boy down the road a piece. And you niggers are distrub. But I'm paid by a white man. My license came from city hall. I'm telling you nigger! Accept Jesus, or a white man's coming behind me! That's right! That's what they were telling us, you know? All right!

	We came through that period, then we came into another period. The period that we mentioned earlier in this talk. The period when we became self protective. We felt that we had to stand up for our rights, and not only protect ourselves as individuals, but we had to protect the whole black community.

	And we had strong leaders, they stood up and they spoke out against it. Not that this came like this, one, two, three. There were times when one spirit came, it was overcome by another spirit. They interchanged, you see. But this was a development. And over the whole history, you can see that this was a one, two, three-ish kind of development. All right.

	I know you are questioning , you're looking. I see you searching. All right. We came through that period of self sacrifice, sacrificing ourselves for Jesus or for G-d's sake, into another period of questioning the enemy, condemning him, and standing up to defend ourselves and our people. That kind of changed too.

	In the next period, we were self protected, but then we moved. Truth came to us from a foreign source. From master Fard Muhammad. And The Honorable Elijah Muhammad, having faith in it stayed on the job until he got a crop growing. A new crop of people. All right.

	This period brought on new kind of people. A self redeemed people. And this is the part that we want all of you to come to. You can't be just self protected, you have to be self redeemed. Self redeemed means you take pride in yourself. You accept responsibility for yourself. You know yourself! You know others! You are not spooked up by the workings of the society. You know and understand the workings of society. No white man can come to you with a bag of tricks as a magician, and make you fall down and start worshiping his tricks. Why? Because you know! And in order to know, you have to come into something superior.

	What was that something that came to us from a foreign source, that made us superior? It was the original truth of the scripture! That truth came to us. Again, it came in symbolic language. But it was the truth! You can give orders in a symbolic language, and it's like giving a pill with poison in it to a person. They take that pill, and they die. They don't see what's in the pill. They accepted the coating looks nice. They take it and they die. Right?

	You can give the same person another pill that's coated too, it's symbolic too. It's wrapped up with symbolism. But there's life instead of poison in the pill! And that pill will make him healthy again. So we didn't know the medicine. We couldn't distinguish the coating from the life giving medicine that under the coating. But we could distinguish enough to know that this wasn't the same old poison pill that we had been taking and dying gradually off the face of Earth. So we accepted it, and we began to grow in health, and in strength. Is that right? And now that this new knowledge has come out, brother and sister, we are really self redeemed.

	I don't fear that any of you can be destroyed by anybody. Not those who accept what we teach. You who accept what we teach today  you can go anywhere! Nobody can destroy you unless you want to be destroyed. That's right. But there was a time when you were a baby nation, and you had to be pampered and sheltered, and protected against the enemy, who would destroy you if you were left alone with them. They say, why would he let the white people in the temple? First thing, there's no such thing as white people. There are only people. And people are in two classes, and that's the way it has been since the beginning.

	G-d said, in the beginning I have created light. And I separated the light from the darkness. Light there means truth and wisdom. And truth and wisdom separates people. There are people who can't face truth. There are people not strong enough for wisdom. They relish their falsehood and lies. They are people of the dark. Means people of ignorance and weakness. Then there are people who are strong enough to accept that great value, that great life giving thing, and they become people of the light. People of wisdom and truth. Righteousness.

	That was the separation that G-d made in the beginning. He never separated people by their color. He separated them by their natures. Now isn't a thing identified in his nature more than it's identified in his physical make up. They can make robots looking just like people, but they don't have the nature of people. So they are not people, are they? They can mechanically do a lot of things that people do. But they are not people because the nature of people is not in that robot. Is that right? All right than.

	So we call you back to that, that G-d made for us to use to create ourselves. What? Create yourself? I thought you said G-d is a creator. Yes. G-d is a creator of the material. Then, He gives us the material to further create. So G-d has given us the materials that make us come to life in the Earth. But then He has further given us materials that we can take into our own hands as tools to create our whole selves. The Holy Quran says, create yourself after the design of your creator. Can I really create myself, mister? Yes, you can. And if you don't accept the responsibility to create yourself, you will always be created by others. Do you understand what I'm saying? Words create you in your body. Ideas, thoughts, words, knowledge, philosophy, create you in your body. And until you accept the responsibility to create yourself, you will always be a crafted creation. A make of somebody else.

	They took Jesus and made him a flesh Caucasian body, and presented him as physically dead, and told you that He's dead, and that He died for you and your sin. And then released you and themselves to commit greater sin. Well, He died for it, we are free now to really sin. We don't have to die for it. And you accepted that kind of religion. They hid the truth from you, and the truth is this, that they did not crucify the physical man. It wasn't only Jesus. There were others too, in His day and time, who were preaching the truth. The same truth. And they didn't crucify the man, the individual, the physical individual. They crucified His truth. And that's why the world came under darkness.

	If you crucify a man physically, it won't hurt him at all if He remains alive as a living light of truth and knowledge before the world. It won't hurt him at all! He continued to grow because people continued to follow His truth. The real crucifiction is the crucifixion of the gospel. The crucifixion of that truth that was given to Jesus, that He preached before the world and they took it and corrupted it, twisted it out of form, and made their own lies. Put His name on it, and used His teachings, to help give it some body.

	Islam is a true religion, the Holy Quran is the true book, not corrupted. The Bible contains the truth, and because it contains the truth, there's an excuse to call it Holy Bible. But if it wasn't for the truth that it contains, if all you could get was what was on the surface, brother, it would be a lie to refer to it as a Holy Bible. Can a book by holy that advances slavery? Racism? Murder? Lying? Gambling? And drunkenness in the earth?

	How can that man accuse the Bible of doing those things? Read the Bible, and you will find that it does these things. If you read on the surface. If you can read beneath the surface and get the meanings behind there, that's hid, sealed, locked up, as the book says, is sealed. Locked up. If you have the key to unlock it and get the goodies out, then it's a good book! It's a holy book! But if you don't have the key, it's no good at all.

	They say the proof of the pudding is in the eating. We have been eating the Bible all our lives and we have grown weaker and sicker! It's only during this day and time when the Bible is challenged by the Holly Quran, that black people in America have stood up and took on a little strength and a little life. You don't have to do nothing but just look at the history, brother and sister.

	NAACP was beautiful. It was around here longer than the Nation Of Islam. But the NAACP couldn't do nothing for us. The churches were all throughout the black community. Store fronts everywhere. Churches, liquor houses, poor houses, and undertakers. Those were the places all before you, right? Everything you could see in the black neighborhood. You didn't have to go far. But all these churches, with all that Bible. We remained down. What brought us up? Education! What freed us? Islam!

	Garvey didn't teach Islam. He freed us. He didn't free anybody! And any Garveyian’s  who can come here and say that he was free before he heard Islam, I'll prove to him, he was not free. Garveyian’s  never understood Garvey, until he heard Islam. Most Americans never understood  Noble Drew Ali until they heard Islam. Civil Rights Movement never understood Civil Rights, until they heard Islam.

	That cross is a symbol of death. A dead man was put on it to show to the dark world that, see, this dead Christ died, for you. So you will love, turn your sentiments out of your heart, toward a white image. So-called white image, Caucasian body. In doing that, you would direct your love and concern away from your own kind to another people.

	And if you accept that that body was the body that contained G-d, was the very presence of G-d on Earth, then you're going to look at all people that have bodies like that body as being G-d-like or divine. You're going to fear to question their judgement. You're going to fear to arouse their anger. You're going to fear to disturb them or to insult them. You're going to be humble  sheep, accepting everything, without questioning anything.

	Because the people come in the body of that one that they say was G-d. The body wasn't enough like them. Jews don't look enough like hillbillies, crackers in the south. To affect the thing that they wanted to affect in your mind and in your heart. So they took this semetic Christ, and put blue eyes into His head. They put blond hair on His head. And they gave Him real sharp features, so He looks like the typical Caucasian. I still don't believe it. You aren't worth me talking to. You can get the hell out of here right now! In fact you should have been gone.

	The book says, like throwing pearls out to swine. Now, you know that's really foolish. Ridiculous for a person to take pearls, valuable pearls, and throw them to pigs. That's what they book say it's like, when you're trying to give this life giving truth to somebody who wants to remain a pig in their nature. What was the sign of Christians before they took on the cross as a sign? The sign was a fish. This is in history books.

	The early Christians did not have a cross. They had a fish as a sign of the truth, the life giving truth that they had received from Christ. What did this fish represent? It represented the life of the water. Fish is the life of the water. What does water represent? Water in scripture means divine body of truth, revealed knowledge. The life of revealed knowledge is the believer. The follower, of that truth. He has taken on the life of that knowledge, the life of the water, and he is flesh, but he's the light of the water. You understand?

	The early Christians, they weren't even called Christians. In fact, if you go to Jerusalem, you won't find people calling themselves  Christians there. They call themselves Nasara, they call themselves Nazarene, they call themselves Naseheyune, but they don't call themselves Christians. Christian is an English word.  A European word.

	You know, when a man has something that's very valuable, it makes him respect it, unless he doesn't know the value of it. But if he has something very valuable, and he knows the value of it, he respects it. Black people who buy a new Cadillac car, like Caucasians do. I don't like to call them white people. That's the term you use. Caucasians do, anybody who buys a fine Cadillac car, El Dorado or something, and then put a bull head on the front of it, and an extra roof on top of it, and some crazy looking leather pillows all around it. They don't know the value of the work that the man did. If the designer of that car could see these fools, it'd drive him crazy! I guess these designers , they must die every time a new model is made. They see what we do to them, and they probably have a heart attack. That's because we don't know the value of the work that that man put into that. That man designed that car. He spent days and days and days designing that car. And here comes a man in one day, throws a lot of junk on it, because he doesn't know the value of it. He doesn't know the value of the work and intelligence, the labor, that was put into the design of that car.

	Christianity is a religion that people know the value of. The ignorant don't know the value of it. But the wise at the top of the civilization, they know the value of Christianity. But do they respect it? No indeed. They let Ku Klux Klan men stick the sacred cross, they say it's sacred, and bring it to our door, our yard. Stick it in the yard, set it on fire, and then commit inhuman acts against us. And go away, and never will the judge say, look, if you didn't respect that man, why don't you respect the sacred cross of our religion? Why did you take our sacred emblem along with you to do those inhuman things?

	What church people have stood up and said, look, we want the Ku Klux Klan to stop this because they are disrespecting the sacred cross! No, they don't come out and do that! Because there's no real innocence and decency in them. The cross is not even sacred with them. But it's sacred with you. Good black Christians, you who were ignorant. You don't even want to leave it somewhere where somebody might come and sit on it or touch it or something. In this world that you live in let fiendish beasts burn it up in the name of cruelty. And burn you up right after it or right along with it. And the world continues to go.

	Don't bring up these things! We're trying to get over that! This is a better world now. But you still have the symptoms manifesting in you, of an old disease! And get that psychoanalyst when you go to him, he listens to what you have to say. And then he tells you, okay, let's go back to yesterday. Let's go back to yesterday before that yesterday. Let's go back as far as we have to go back to trace the stream of this poison in your system. Is that right or wrong? All right, so don't tell the physician how to do his job!

	None of them will come out and bring to the attention of the people the ugly acts against the sacred cross. They let it go on. They see the cruelty to the person, but they don't see their involvement in it. If they permit their sacred emblems to be used in this criminal act, then they are involved! The whole church is involved! The whole Christian nation is involved! If they allow one drooling mouthed beast to take their sacred emblem, and carry it as a justification. This is to prove that they've sanctioned what I'm doing! See hear, nigger, I've got the sacred cross! I've got G-d on my side to do what I want to do to you! They know that that cross has been burned deep into your heart and mind. And that when you see that cross in the so-called white Caucasian hand, and he's burning it, you're going to get so afraid.

	The only one who could burn His own cross is G-d! And this man is the same color as Jesus. This is what goes on in your subconscious, brother and sister! Don't think you have one mind, you have two minds! You have a conscious mind, and you have a subconscious mind. The subconscious mind speaks to your conscious mind without your conscious mind hearing what your subconscious mind has to say.

	All right. They have not respected their religion. They have not valued it. They will do anything to it to keep it in existence. If a man values what he's made, I've seen artists. They do a work, and somebody says, well, if you just change this a little bit, I'll like it. If he values his work, many artists would say, no, man. That's my work. You have to take it like it is. They don't want to change it.  They value what they have put together. Anything that you really value, you know what has gone into it. You don't want to see it messed around, changed.

	Islam is a religion that stands for no messing around in it! We don't allow it to be changed. It's a true religion! It remains the same, always. This doesn't sound like what the prophet Muhammad of Arabia taught fourteen hundred years ago. You don't know how to hear what sound is that's being made! If you could hear what I'm saying, and knew how to recognize what I'm saying, you would hear the same thing that Muhammad of Arabia said, fourteen hundred years ago!

	But a cheap religion, an adulterated, diluted, corrupt, and distorted truth, people don't value that much. They say, well, man, I'd like to use it here. Can I change it a little bit? Oh yeah man. Go on, do anything you want with it. It has no value anyway! Do what you want with it. You won't hurt me. You won't offend me. As long as you keep my thing going. Is that right? All right. That's Christianity.

	It went to Africa, and what did it do to Africa? It took Ethiopia, that was a proud people. They had not yet fallen down to the lowest level of civilization. The Ethiopian was yet wise, civilized, and dignified. So Christianity, that the Ethiopians accepted, had to be Ethiopianized. It was made regal. Regalized. Was made king like.
Speaker 1: still alive and dignified. Christianity that the Ethiopians accepted had to be Ethiopianized. It was made regal or regalized. Was made king-like so that the black Ethiopian king can feel dignified. Our history goes back to the beginning of Christianity. I'm the lion of Judah. The Christians didn't attack him for making this claim. They allowed him-- The caucasian west allowed Ethiopia to have this privilege of wearing Christianity as a king because he wouldn't buy  slavery or servitude. Still and yet that religion has the same effect on his mind. Look how long Haile Selassie ruled. Look what brought about his fall. Ruling over his people like they were nothing but a slave cow. Talking about Christian Ethiopia. All right.
What did they do to the black man who was not in that kind of image? The ordinary just small man in Africa. They gave him another kind of religion. They gave him a religion that said the white Christ is your personal savior. What did they do to us here? Gave us both. They gave us a religion that said the caucasian man is your personal savior. They also gave us a kind of alcoholized religion. What do I mean by alcoholized? I mean turned into alcohol to make you drunk mentally and morally.
They gave you a religion that would appeal to the alcoholic. A man in the plantation fields under the treatment that the slave lived under a hundred years ago needed something to put his mind to sleep in order for him to face the world. His mind was so tormented by the reality of real problems that faced him every day of his life that he had to have something as an alcohol to make him drunk so he can forget it. Physical alcohol wouldn't work for the slave. The slave can't work on the job effectively if he is under physical alcohol.
So they couldn't set up liquor store on the plantation every day of the week because the slaves will get drunk and wouldn't be able to do any work. So you were allowed to drink liquor on the day off. Go to church that you go to church now you give them the liquor. You better be sober Monday morning . There was one alcohol that they could give you every day. That was Christianity as it was alcoholized for the American slave.
What you have been feeding on up until this very day have been nothing but alcoholized religion. Religion to make you an alcoholic and to satisfy your need for alcohol. Believe it or not, if we had the time and we gone overtime. I'm going to have to let you go. If we had the time I could go into it and show you without any question being left that Christianity was a package of alcohol made by slave masters to feed you and keep you drunk mentally, morally and spiritually.
How can a drunkard be successful? A drunkard can't be successful. He can never rise economically. He can never rise intellectually. He can never rise in any way. We rose under Christianity. You arose because you stopped frequenting the alcohol house. You start making your visits less frequent. You start studying and listening to other things. You start going elsewhere for your drink. Those who frequent the pub, brother, they stayed drunk and they can't rise.
Frederick Douglass didn't frequent the pub. He wasn’t a steady church goer .His mind was in science and politics. Name me any other successful person who came up before this teaching that we were given. I have studied his life. Studied her life. You will see that they didn't frequent the pub called the church. This is a very uninsulting man.

 No. I'm a kind and loving man. A kind and loving parent. They have tried to talk  their child out of danger. Talking don't work. They tried to slap him out of danger. Not because they hate him because they love him. Then you got another kind who's the Christian kind. They tried to talk him out of danger. And if it takes too many words or take their time from something else they give up and let him go and call that love. I love him. I just don't want to at him so much. I love him. I can't whip him. No, you love yourself. That's why you can't whip him. You love being free from your responsibilities. That's why you can't argue with him and talk to him and whip him if you must.
That's not love. That's selfishness. Brothers and sisters, I thank you for giving us your time, your attention. I hope that you've understood what we've had to say and have benefited from it, and will appreciate the benefit that has come to you and give yourself to Islam from this day on, and not to any other religion. Give yourself to this house and no other religious house from this day on. If you are not ready to do that then you are not ready to stop being a hypocrite.
Grace period is over. This day and time if you don't act rightly you suffer for what you do. We don't have the law of the land in our hands. We can't put you in jail for breaking our law or send you to the chair or to life imprisonment or fine you so much. As it was in the days of Jesus, it is now. Jesus and his people they were  under the law of Rome. He didn't have the law in his hands. He couldn't punish  his people for breaking law. All he could do is try to educate them. Lift their minds up and get them to see the importance of an orderly society and accept themselves to impose law upon themselves. Because the law to that world that Jesus lived in were the law of a G-dless people. And today the laws that we live under in the street  are laws of a G-dless people. They have laws designed to help the economy, to help politics, to strengthen government. Very few laws they have that were intended to develop your mind or to save you personally. The laws that you have are laws that are for the good of society. And society is seen in those that control and rule society. I hope you understand what I'm saying.
So we're in the same position today. There's no law out there in the land to stop you from breaking whiskey, to stop you from being poor, to stop you from killing each other. If you want to kill each other? And we are not the law of this land. We can't impose the law, our own laws on you. So you have to accept responsibility for yourself. In the days when the religious people called Jews in the Bible, when they had their own government, they punished their people. They executed law on their own people themselves. They killed their people for certain crimes. They whipped their people for certain crimes.
But in the days of Jesus, they did not have a government, they did not have law in their hands and they couldn't do these things. As some of you say, Jesus didn't use physical force because he loved the people too much. You're wrong. If everybody would follow Jesus, we would have a corrupt, rebellious generation of children. If you don't use any force, if you show nothing but love and excuse everything your children do, they'll take over your house. G-d put them under you for you to give them guidance and tell them what not to do and protect them and hold them back from wrong. And if you don't do it, they'll take over your house.
There's something in the Bible that let us know that physical force was not forbidden by Jesus. When he walked into the synagogue, and saw them corrupting the synagogue, the money changers. He took the whip and whipped them, beat them out of the synagogue. He knocked over tables. Well for the sake of a few I've held many get back. Many of you were ready to leave here long ago, you understood. But for the sake of a few, I've held everybody back and I stay here, trying to help a few that don't want to come along because they're blind, deaf and dumb.
We want those who are here, who are members of the F.O.I.  and Muslim women development class, to remain back. We have a message to give to you. It's important and you should hear it. Those who are not members of the crew of Islam, that is the men class and the Muslim women development class, we thank you for being with us today and pray that truth will be within your reach from now on. And that you'll be strengthened to accept truth and follow  truth.
Also that some among us who are in class C, because they have disrespected some of the laws of the Muslim society, we also thank you for being present today. And we pray for your continuous growth and strength. But we ask you too to choose yourself. After our talk is finish here  and the minister make the closing announcement. Take care of this closing business of today. Brothers and sisters, I thank you and very good. And I'll be with you today after about a month. And I look forward to seeing you again soon. And I do miss you when I'm away.

 For now that the truth have made us really brothers and sisters, let's never turn into enemies again. As-sal?mu alaykum.
Speaker 1:
When on your mind works well, fasting is easy. During the month of Ramadan, keep your mind on things that are valuable and important, and good, clean, you know? If you don't keep your mind on Allah and the higher values of life, then fasting is going to be hard for you. If you keep your mind on Allah and the higher values of life, read the Holy Quran as you saw in the paper, the instructions in the paper, then Ramadan shouldn't be that difficult for you. In fact, most of us, we are in the habit of eating one meal a day and the only thing you'll be changing is time some of the days being late. Those who have really been following strictly the one meal a day, it's not really a fast as far as physical food is concerned. Remember, this fast is not just a fast of physical food, a physical thing. It's a fast of the whole body. If you didn't read that article, read that article. It's a fast of the whole human being, the whole makeup.


Some people call it some Orthodox Muslims, they make the mistake of calling it the fast for spiritual benefits . It's not just of spiritualism, it is a fast for the good, the benefit of the whole person. Spiritual, mind, body, heart. Everything, the fast for whole person. During the day hours, you want to keep your mind on Allah, our creator and higher values of life. If you get the chance, you should yourself to take time. Take time from something else you've been doing in the day, you know? If you've been listening to the radio or watching TV, cut that time out and ready the holy Quran. You should read 1/30th of the holy Quran each day so that by the end of the month, you would have read the complete Holy Quran. It's in 30 parts and if you have Muhammad Yousef Ali translation, you will notice that on the page it has on the side, I think to the left, 1/30th. When you go maybe another 30 or 40 pages, you'll see 2/30ths and keep on until it's 30/30, that's the whole Holy Quran.


Okay, now one other word on fasting. The great benefit of fasting is self-mastery. It's hard for us to make ourselves do what we know is good for self, for the wife, for the children, for the nation. It's hard to do those things sometimes because we're weak, right? Okay, the fasting helps that. Prayer helps, good thinking helps. Fasting also helps, fasting helps that. Why? Because the sole drive that is in us is the drive of hunger, that physical hunger. If you look at the animal world, their whole life is mostly driven by hunger. They hunt, they kill, because of hunger-drive, you see? The whole life of the animal is mostly a life that's driven by the drive of hunger, so that's the drive of the flesh. The drive of flesh is to keep something in there to satisfy the flesh. If you can control that, it doesn't only help the power to withstand the forces of the flesh, but it also helps everything else because everything is related. The mind, the flesh, the body. The body affects the mind, the mind affects the body.


Morality is affected, all these things influence each other and if you strengthen one, it results in the strength of the other. You see? Yeah. Let us keep this fast, it's very important. Very important and if you keep the fast, which I know many of you will, I believe most of you will. At the end of that fast, I promise you in the name of Allah, that the benefit will come soon after the month of Ramadan is over. You will see a change not only in your personal life, but the whole community of this mosque will feel it. The Holy Quran, read the article it saves me , you who haven't read, find the article and read it. The Holy Quran says fasting is for me, that G-d himself speaks it. He says fasting is for me and there's another quote that goes like this, it says, "The bad breath of the fasting person is like sweet perfume to the creator." Why? Because what he's doing is sweet. The same drive, the same force, the same power that drives animals to kill each other for just a little piece of leg, for just a mouthful of meat, you know? They kill a whole animal just to get the stomach full. The leave the animal dead, they ate a leg off and they was full. And then the rest of it is left there for another animal or bird or something


That same drive in the body, that drives animals to eat up each other? They don't eat up each other, they eat other animals. We the only ones that beat up each other. That drives animals to beat up other animals and drive us to beat up each other, that same drive now. This muslim man, he lives with it, denies it and then not grumbling. That drives an animal mad, but this muslim, he's pleasant and spiritual, and happy with it. All praises due to Allah. Reading the Holy Quran, Allah Akbar, Allah Akbar, you see? He's thanking Allah and reflecting on the wisdom and duty of G-d, while he's, the thing that drives the world crazy, is gnawing on him. He acts as though he's in heaven. This is under the power of G-d, under power of his truth, you see? Thinking on his wonders, the wonder of truth and creation that supports the heavens and the earth, designs and order of the wonders of creation.


He thinks on these great wonders and this keeps him very much alive, and it's so powerful it wakens up the mind, the inner being. It makes him stand up independent of the outer body and though the outer body is crying for food, he can't hear it, because he has separated himself from that body and he's living in the world of the higher form now. I don't mean that you can do that forever, if you want your body don't do that forever. Just do it during the daylight hours of the month of Ramadan and after sun, you eat and drink, all right? Okay. No fasting outside of during Ramadan. If anybody fast two days, he has broke Ramadan. I won't eat, I'll fast two days, I'll fast three days. You have broke Ramadan. As long as you are free to do things like you want to do, you will destroy everything. The benefit is in following orders to the letter. Don't overdo it, don't under-do it. Do exactly what you're told and you'll get the benefits. All right, let's see.


Now, I would like to thank the muslim youth committee. They went on a camping trip, successful trip. Young brothers look happy and from the description that was given, I missed something. I would've loved to have seen those brothers. They say those young brother was carrying their packs and they really looked like young soldiers, and they were the happy as they could be. Thanks goes to Brother Wali Baha . Most of you know him, he used to captain. Not he's doing something just as worthy, maybe more worthy. Working with the young, I think is more worthy than working with the old. He's doing a great service, pretty soon they'll be old and the complaints that the old have, maybe we will prevent those complaints from ever coming into existence by working with the young, right? We're not only going to help the young, we're going to help the old for the future too, you see? And Sister Lucille Karim Muhammad .


Both of these are very dedicated people, they love their work and they're willing to do anything to make the Nation Of Islam beautiful, happy, prosperous and successful. There's a lot of prosperous people, they're not successful, is that right? All right, I hope you understand what I'm saying. Also, we have to recognize the donations that was given to this camp program, a project, by the Seven Day Adventist Church. They gave us the camp ground and the facilities free of charge. I was there myself, they didn't give us anything cheap and inferior. The big camp ground, beautiful. Perfect for camping. Knife, what they call them, compounds? I came from prison, you know? They call them compounds at prison, what they call them, barracks? No, that's army. Little house for the campers, you see? They just have bunks, but they're nice for camping.


Also, they have swimming pool. Very nice swimming pool. Little midget bike, I don't they call it midget bike. What do they call them things? It looks like a midget bike, you know? Motorbike.  I saw tennis court up there you know everything that they would like and the main thing, the land is clean. The land is beautiful and the land is ideal for camping. Brother told me up there, the seven day adventist brother was doing up the route, he said that all kinds of things grew up there that's good for eating, good for health and that's good for us to learn. The youngsters can learn that. They see a new land they think they've been walking in the city, they know value of it. They show them and they tell what kind of food, you see it's good for you. I wish I could go out there, it'd be good for me.


I don't want to miss anything. You know, of course, we're going to give the Seven Day  Adventist Church a donation. We're not the kind of people that get goodness from others and don't show appreciation for it. It's enough just to say thank you, we offer them a donation. If they don't want it, that's up to them but we have to offer. Although they didn't charge us, we've got to offer them a donation and I'm sure they'll accept it because they need it, just like we do. You hear how I talk, some of you might think that I'm against Christians. I'm not. I'm against the evils that hold Christians down and backwards, keep them dark and ignorant, and backwards you see? But I'm not against Christians, because Christians believe in Allah too, they just have different ideas. They have a confused idea about, but they believe in Allah too and they try to good lives, and you'll find many of them living better lives than we who call ourselves Muslims.


Really, the names don’t always identified the people. Some Christians are better Muslims than Muslims, yeah. All Muslims who really are devoted to their religion are better Christians than Christians. Christian means to be Christ-like. Following that teaching that they get they can’t be Christ-Like . Now we have another announcement here, payroll analysis of the Nation of Islam. Brothers and Sisters, I started a ball rolling here and pretty soon help came in that like the direction that the ball is going. I'm thankful for that. We have laborers now in the business department and the secretary of department, we always have a good labor there though. I don't want you to think that Brother Secretary Rasul wasn't a good laborer. I've heard a lot of things about Secretary Rasul , but one thing I do know is that he respected and obeyed my father, may peace be on him. In my presence, I never saw him disrespecting or not obeying him and he's never said anything to me that would make me think that he wasn't obedient. Everything he's ever said to me shows that he was respectful and obedient. I know that he has been honest, I haven't caught him being dishonest. He likes to live good and walk like a rooster.


Were he supposed to be a rooster, I don't blame him. He likes to show the public that his position is Secretary of the Nation of Islam, Nation's Secretary. He walk out, he doesn't want to walk out in the clothes of somebody who's in the position of local FOI Secretary. He wants to look the part. When he pulls out his money, he wants to know that he's got money that speaks for his position. When he spends, he likes to spend so that the people that he's giving the money to know that he has the position and not only the position, but the recognition he gets in the salary to. Where is he? I hope he is not getting ready to jump on  me. I've been fasting, I wouldn't be able to struggle with that man for two minutes. In fact, it might not last for two seconds. I can’t wrestle with him today I’m too weak, you see?


I tell you one thing, his eyes looked like this and he looked ahead, and he looked like this. He doesn't look down. Then he has the ability to recognize things of value. Here and outside and he can bring them right quick to your mind. He's able to recognize flaw within things and right away, bring your attention to it. A college man, he has training and then he's a lively worker. He's a valuable man and he's my friend. Like Jesus said, the one that I'll send sews the first thought. Let me see your life and I'll compare it with his life, and after I do that, I don't think that I'll accept that he's doing his strong. We like to criticize. Brother's been charged with everything, I don't see how he made it this far. CIA agent, FBI agent, a hustler, a crook. A this, a that, Usually the people who are making those kind of charges are the same that they are charging the other with. Beautiful brother.


Let's see here, now we have a payroll analysis. I don't want you to get mad at me and the Secretary for this analysis. This analysis is the work of intelligence and a pencil, that no people had anything to do with this. Intelligence got the work and a pencil went to work, writing down what intelligence came up with. We found that some people are overpaid and some underpaid. Look for changes in your salary, Brothers and Sister. Mostly, the changes will be deducted from what we've heard from intelligence and the pencil. If we don't have some control over the spending of the nation, we don't have the nation. We have to control the nation's spending and everybody who's in position, and has control, the spending don't look out for the nation. By saving the nation a penny, if they can, then they don't really have the nation at heart. If they have it at heart, they don't have a sense to recognize the value of it. Of what has to be done. People like that , they should be out of position.


You'll be surprised how much money I find just laying around. I’m telling on you if I don’t , you’ll do it again one day. Just bags of money laying around. Bags that was hard to handle, lazy, slave-minded blacks who now surpose to be a muslim, let money lay around because they too lazy to tell somebody or to do it themselves. Pick the money bags up and take them to the bank, have it counted and see what we have, and put it into you. Make use of it. Brother Secretary, can you tell us approximately how much money we found over there, laying around in bags? $19,000, in coins because they too heavy to carry they just let them pile up. I went over there and I searched, I found them and got it out of there. Then the banks, I counted it in the banks and it's on the way to the nursing home.


What we found was neglected round there in bags. Brought the nursing home a little better than $34,000. If you don't know, you haven't heard. Whether you work for the nation or not, eventually you'll hear that the nation is going on payroll. All the nation's supposed to be on payroll. Before, there were many of us on payroll but everyone wasn't on payroll. What we mean by payroll is this.  You're not paid in privacy or secret. Your money is given to you and the government knows what you get. The government takes out of your money. Social security is taken out, that way they have a record of your employment. If you should have to leave Chicago or leave the nation employment, or become disable or something ... You never know what might happen. You can draw employment, you can draw unemployment compensation. You can draw social security when you reach the age, you can draw compensation. Then you have a job record that you can use and go to others, and get a job. The way we were operated, a lot of brothers and sisters have been put in the streets and then have nothing to go on.


They couldn't get jobs because they didn't have any records, can't draw social security, can't draw unemployment. That's bad, it was necessary for a while but is not necessary now. Believers to get the benefit of their labor and some of them think that the best way is to hide some of it. Don't let the man know what I'm making, so he won't have to take out tax. Don't think we going to keep giving you money forever. A better man comes into your job, he's going get it. Our interest is the nation, we're concentrated about the nation. That don't mean you can have the job for your life just because you got it. You might have to go out there on the street and get a job or you might have to take a lesser job that pays less. Why not do things right to protect yourself? Then you have returns coming.


The book they gave to Caesar, what is Caesar? The government says so much of your income is to be taken from you to run the government, you live in the government. We don't owe this government anything, you owe yourself something. You are part of this government. You're in it, you live in it. You have to live in it, okay you go somewhere else. You have to look out for your own interests. Everybody's on the payroll now except those people who are working for the nation part  time or who just donated their service. If anytime you want to give something, it will be given to them as a donation, a contribution. It's not salary. We have a Sister who's up in age, who is very faithful. Whenever she can, she works for the nation so if anytime we feel like it, there's no regular salary there. We give her something to help her out. If she needs something, we help her along. This doesn't have to go on any payroll or anything because she's not a regular worker, a salaried worker.


You want to be successful? Come out in the open, there's a lot of Brothers and Sisters who have in good faith and with good intentions, weeped with the wrong understanding. They have stole money and gave it as donations. Robbed banks, donated to the nation. Sell dope, donate money to the nation. We don't have any concrete evidence, but we have what they call circumstantial evidence. That's pretty strong, so we have to say these things have existence. In the Holy Quran, it tells you that money, that you ashamed of, is not fit to be put into the treasure as donations. It says don't bring donations to G-d that is for G-d's work, that if you received it, you would hide. Accept it behind closed doors, you see? Nobody who's in that kind of business comes out in the open and says, "Here, man. Here's $1000 I got from selling heroin or some reefer", or for robbing a bank. We don't come out in the open and do these things, do we? All of us, know. We're not going to get out in the open and say these things.


The Holy Quran says if it's not something that you can come open with, then don't give it as charity. I'm telling you, don't give it to me. I'll hate it. It's to accept it is destroying you. That's right. If you feel you have to give charity to the nation from those things, unlawful things, then that's making you stay in the business of pushing dope. It's harming the people and killing our people, and who is at the top of it? The one who's accepting your donations and have you feel like you building a great nation with it. We are building this nation with your money, while we're destroying you and the people you're selling the poison too. You lose your life robbing a bank or kill some innocent person robbing a bank. One bank, you might rob, maybe your son would be in it or your wife, or my wife. You might have to kill her, you see these things lead into a lot of destruction that's self-destruction.


You think you wouldn't do those things. Brother, if you do those things, you're on your own and we don't want your money. Not the money that you get from that kind of thing. The sisters too. We don't need it. The Holy Quran says that the last line follows that goes like this. Which means that Allah is the one who has in his possession, all the wealth and he is the most dignified. He is supreme in dignity and respect. If you go to somebody, the most respected person in the world. The cleanest  most upright, respected, holiest, wealthiest person in the world and say here's $10,000 I got from a bank robbery or some dope. That's insulting the person. That gives you some idea of how you insult the being of almighty G-d when you come with that kind of donation.


Brother minister, you know we haven't been that spooky in religion. Well you're that spooky now, unless you want to change me you have to dance by this music. If you're ready to change me, I'm ready to leave right now. I'll take it right off and I'm gone. We don't impose ourselves on anybody, we leave. All right, so I believe we have one more announcement that is very, very important. This is good news. All of it's good news, this is really good news. The land or this way, the parking lot there all the way to the end of the block, is the same as our land. We don't have the deed but we have the use of it. All we have to do is sweep it up. The park there on the end, it's in our charge. We can use it but for day hours, we have to leave it open to the public. After 11 o'clock, if we need it we can use it. Then anytime we want to use it, we can use it as long as we don't keep out the public. If the public seeing us use it, you know they going to respect us. They not going to force themselves in on us, so it's the same as having a property. Same as being ours.


The railroad tracks behind here, the railroad has given that to us. Though we won't own the deed, it's railroad property. Railroad can't sell that property, but we will be the same as owners of it. They won't use it, it's ours and all we have to give them $47 a year. We moving on out


Speaker 1:	All right so we're moving on out, right? All right. You know the name you already had over here, before I came into the position. Right behind us is Merrick Chevrolet  is now the nation’s Merrick Chevrolet. It's just a matter of time they have to grab their phase  down and get out of there, you know? Pretty soon, in a few months, we'll be in there. It's going to provide vocational schools for the university of Islam  here.

	You might not know it, but I'm a  A # 1, all around, all positions, combination welder. Let me tell you, you can learn, you can make some money welding, and I hope to be in that vocational school a few hours a week, helping the brothers learn how to weld and do A # 1 quality jobs.

	Other possibilities for that space over there, business training school, where there's the business, people who work on the machines, typewriters that are outdated that they use in these schools. We have them because ours get outdated. We can't use them, they are outdated  the secretary can’t use them. We have to get out the work, so we have old typewriters we have to sell and take a loss of, or trade in, pardon me, and take a loss of. We take those old typewriters and use them in the school to train beginners so they learn how to type, they learn how to operate other business machines and the secretary will give them training on the job, the business people will give them training on the job. We hope to qualify produce our own position holders, labor holders. Labor. If we do that, we will be doing a service to our people.

	Another announcement I want to make to you, if any believer has been a faithful believer in the Nation of Islam, you don't have any serious bad mark against your record and you have children, your children automatically have scholarships. Those who have been in here 25 years or more, your children can be sent anywhere you want.

	Another possibility that should make the students very happy, there's going to be four-day schools pretty soon. Boys and girls will go four times. There will be enough room, enough facilities there to accommodate both, keeping them separate, but allowing them to go to school four times. That is, those younger grades, younger trouble making grades, you see? You have to keep them separate for awhile, you see, then leave it up to a age  so they can pay for their own damage, then you can let them mix .

	Going to have a cafeteria so they can walk right over to the cafeteria and get their hot lunches. That's right. Well, that's not all, now. We have something else too. We are on the way, we think it's so close we're almost ready to announce it, but we do know we'll have this. We won't have it exactly where we think it will be, we will have it. There are the possibilities. Nursery, social center ... Very crafty  juice bar. Entertainment. Classrooms or study rooms for the youth camp members, and more in the same building. With ground parking facilities to accommodate the number of people that would come and fill that building. We're moving. We're not standing still.

	You might say, "Well what about spaces outside of  headquarters ?" Well headquarters is first.	That's right.

Speaker 1:	Headquarters will not neglect other places. In Bermuda  we already have this big school, large accommodations for elderly sisters, our single sisters, plenty ground, large beautiful temple on one of the better streets in Bermuda. Beautiful place, beautiful ground, large accommodations, taking care of the school and elderly sisters, single sisters if necessary if they want to and also having many other facilities there that can be used. A big place that the Catholics sold to us. Church, monastery, convent, we took it all.

	In Oakland, California, is almost good as gotten I believe , maybe I better ask the  secretary for some indication here. Secretary, how does that look? Oakland, California.
Secretary:	Looks good, sir.

Speaker 1:	Looks good?

Speaker 1:	So it’s on the third. It looks good, no problem?



Speaker 1:	All right, all right. It's a building that's equally as impressive as what I just described in Bermuda. Big, large, impressive  building. Very nice  accommodations. Jamaica we're on the way to get the same thing. The Virgin Islands, a brother  from New York went out to Virgin Islands, came here and talked to me a little while in a sit down. I saw the zeal and the fire and the selflessness in this brother and I told him, I said, "Brother  , go on." I  says, "If that's what you want to do, just go." That brother went down in the Virgin Islands, all of a sudden Virgin Islands on fire with Islam.

	Even  Chicago , if we successful  and we have been so far, I don't see anything to hurt it, we are going to have this block  here ...

Speaker 1:	... and all the way over next block. That will put us two blocks over that way. Now you know this is a blessing?

Speaker 1:	All right come on. My brother Herbert Muhammad, he came to me with the place over here, we had looked at it before once earlier, I hear, it was looked at. There was some interest in the property but the things just couldn't develop. Here recently my brother Herbert Muhammad came to me, he said, "The people are talking to me and they want to sell their properties to me." We can get it. He thought it was a good idea. I said, "Yes, it's a good idea." We don't want anybody to buy land next door, adjacent to us if we have the money to buy it first. We don't want people next door to us, unless they’re us. We managed to move in and so far we've got most of it. Look like we're going to get all of it. The price is not outrageous, I think the price is fair. Good price. Good price.

	All right, let's see. I don't want to forget any of these goodies. Take enough time to read , because I won't be out here to see you anymore for another month I don't think. I want to get all this ... We can spare one day out a month.

	Well I believe that takes care of it, the main things. I don't have a ...All right. Okay. We have one other announcement and I can start on it, so if I know, I can remember some of it by heart. We have here Captain Yusef  Shah  Ex . He's not captain anymore. You know the ex means you're not that anymore, you see? Captain Yusef  Shah X. He's now a minister, Yusef Shah. He all of a sudden got a X and got rid of it at the same time. Minister Yesuf  Shah.

	I know him, I've been knowing him for a long time. He's been captain for a long time in New York, out there on the East Coast. He's supported the Nation, held up the Nation on the East Coast along with the ministers. Minister Farrakhan is right here. Right there with him. Nothing I could say about him that would mean anything other than praise. Hard worker, obedient, faithful, truthful, willing to do anything to see this Nation keep moving. He accepted to come into the ministry. I invited him to and he accepted. I'm very happy to have him in the ministry. He didn't know what he could do. Say, "Well, I have to just go on what you see in me. I'm a Captain, I'm a Captain." I heard him talk a long time ago

Speaker 1:	I heard him minister as a captain. He's qualified to do more than be a captain, he can be a minister and he is a minister.

Speaker 1:	I'm sure he's going to do a wonderful job as a minister. Hard worker. He's had to sacrifice himself and his family. He's had a lot of things that he's had to battle out there on the East Coast. Had to live through a lot of terrible times, bad storms.  Yes sir, that's right.

	He lived through it. I think now he would like, even if he doesn't realize it, I think now he would appreciate the opportunity to get out of the streets  and have a chance to sit down for a while. The minister's job gives you the chance to sit down and sit down on the raustrum, sit down on the chair and write your notes. You get a better desk job. I think he's going to appreciate that. I know his wife appreciates it already. His children, they appreciate it already. You know a man who puts so much into working with the men, the common foot soldiers, as we used to call them, well he feels the love and attachment there. It hurts him to come out of the ranks, so to speak, and be a minister. He feels comfortable there as a captain. I know he won't be called captain, he is a captain. He's a soldier. He'll always be that. That doesn't take from him being a minister. A minister's supposed to be a soldier.

	As a young man I marched in the junior troop. I was lieutenant of the junior troop once upon a time, and loved it. I loved it. In fact, when I was even younger, I used to envy the boy scouts, cub scouts. I wanted to get with them and put on those uniforms. It looked mean, it looked male , man you know. I was a boy and I wanted that. The way they treat people in some parts of the world, sometimes I feel with all the Army  put on the uniform and help kill some of these wicked oppressors of the humanity. We all are soldiers, you know? Islam knows they accept this truth and understand it, they are soldiers.

	Before continuing this, I don't want to forget, brothers, you sell Muhammad Speaks newspaper. Don't forget the value of that paper to the ministry of Islam and to the Nation. That paper is very valuable. I can understand if it really hurts you or hurts the family, hurts the children, hurts the job and you have to sell the paper, but if you are tied up working, then you should have a little more money coming in from your job. That means you can buy a few papers, give them to some young junior brother, junior fruit, or some senior fruit who wants to sell the papers and tell him, say, "Brother, I'm just giving you this 10 papers or five papers or 60 papers. You sell them, you're going to sell them, you get the credit for it." Allah will pay you, Allah will reward you for that, you see? Don't forget the value of that paper. That paper is no less important now than it has ever been. In fact, it's more important now than it has ever been.

	More appointments  another captain and I must say that this man, from the knowledge that I have of him, was a fine captain. A true captain. Very strong brother. Captain Rashid . He was formerly the captain of the Minister Hassan. Abdul Karim Hassan, in Los Angeles, over that region out there. He has been appointed to the ministry, he's accepted. He tried once, I heard him, he did a very good job, and I think now he's very pleased and very comfortable in the ministry. He has seen what he can do. Brother Minister Shah? Don't you ever play yourself cheap anymore.

Speaker 1:	I heard what you did today.

Speaker 1:	Don't apologize anymore. When you talk, don't apologize to anybody. That's right. He did that good today, I can see in two months from now. I know he got it. He just has to relax and get so he can do it smoothly, you know? Practice makes perfect they say, you see? You go in your pocket for change. You come out easy. Notice little children that go in their pockets for change. They fumble. Sometimes hand gets stuck in their pockets. That's because they haven't had enough practice, you see?

	Minister Rashid, the next appointment we want to announce is the appointment of Minister Yusef Ali. He's a Jamaican and a very popular Jamaican. As minister in Jamaica working with the minister who has been down there all the time ministering. In fact, there are about three who have been ministering there. Now we have all three of them working. Minister Yusef Ali, Muhammad Yusef Ali, he's in charge down there. First we tried working the two together. They were like co-workers, with one not superior to the other. You know I said once that you have to have a leader, you have to have a superior. You just can't work together without somebody with authority over all the others. They tried to do it, but it didn't work out. You might have one that can accept the other, but hardly ever you will find both who can work together as equal partners. Always one has to be respected a little more than the other.

	We have Minister Yusef Ali there over Jamaica and we have two temples there operating and we hope to set up not only in Jamaica, but in the Caribbean, a chain, a large, large chain of temples. What do we call them? Parishes. Small places. Small places. This is the way you have to reach people in those areas, you see? It's not like here where transportation is plentiful and fast. People who are in distant communities, they're poor too, they don't have enough money to come sometimes, and then it's too difficult to come if they had more money. The way to do that is to set up small parishes all over that place, all over the Caribbean. Then have fiery apostles, FarraKhan, Na’im where is he, there he is, look at him. Right now he's sitting back there hiding. All right. He's leaning over on his hand, he almost leaned out of view. We get them to go through there and before you know it the Caribbean will be the Nation of Islam. That's what we want. We want this everywhere. But it has to start at home, it spreads abroad, right?

	Minister Azir Karim has been transferred from Dallas, Texas, because Minister Shah, Yusef Shah, will be going to Dallas, Texas, to Detroit, Michigan, for a trial period. We just want to see how it would work out. We're experimenting a little bit there. Testing to see just what will bring the right result there. We're bringing in Minister Azir Karim, an old minister. Been in for many, many years. He was in prison with The Honorable Elija,h Muhammad  peace be on him, and those locals that went to prison with him. He was Muslim, it goes way back. He's a very sincere, hardworking, dedicated brother and I'm sure that he will be able to do a good job in Detroit.

	I think that covers it for the ministers. We have some other changes. We're going to make this Midwest area come to life and move and jump up and shine. We can't announce right now, but we have plans for Illinois, Ohio, Michigan, and Indiana and even Missouri. This Midwest region. We have plans to really start things to moving out here. We can't just put up with anymore slow moving, you see? We have to move. We have to show that we have something that will produce. The only way to show it is to show the product.

Speaker 1:	That's what we're going to do. We're not going to shortchange anybody. We're not going to hurt anybody, but we're not going to take the Nation's money and give it for favoritism to pacify somebody that won't do nothing, can't do anything, just keep them living comfortable while the Nation is trying to move and carry them and then sacrificing it self to them. We can't have that. I'm sorry. I hope you don't feel too bad brothers and sisters, but we on the way. We got a bulldozer.

Speaker 1:	I thank you. And a honest  immaculate expression brothers and sisters, is to say I love you. Indeed, I love you. You have supported my father and now you're supporting me.

Speaker 1:	You're as strong now as you were then. You are not divided, you are united. You are not disheartened, you are not despaired. You're as eager and as fired and as ready to go as you've ever been and even more so. Almighty Allah loves you and anybody who respects and know and recognize and obey Allah, they just have to love you. One day the whole world will love you. Loving you, the whole world will be made right. Because if they love you for your strength  and your righteousness, it has to affect them and change them too for the better. The sun of Islam has indeed risen in the West and it's just a matter of time before the light is seen all around the world.

	Peace be unto you, brothers and sisters, asalam walekum.
