02/02/1977
IWDM Study Library 
The Christ Movement (Brothers Meeting)

By Imam W. Deen Mohammed
Let me first open by saying Bismillahir Rahmanir Raheem. In the Name of Allah, Most Gracious, Most Merciful. Ashadu 'an ilaha illa-ilah. I openly witness that there is nothing to be worshiped except Allah. Ashadu 'ana Muhammad. And I openly witness that Muhammad Abduhu Wa Rasulahu, is His slave, servant and His Messenger. Dear beloved Muslim brothers, I give you the greetings of peace, As-salamu Alaykum.
Now, you can begin sitting. I think most of you are here. All Praises due to Allah. Now, we shouldn't be able to hear anything. It should be so quiet in here that you feel like the place is empty, except for the feeling of life and the spirit of brotherhood. You should feel like the place is so quiet that it is empty of noise, and that's what it should be. We should be able to hear a pin fall if it fell on pavement or a hot surface or a fly flying around in the auditorium. Thank you.
Now, let me begin by thanking you for being present here tonight. Now, what you are going to hear tonight is what you hear whenever you hear/teach the true teachings of Islam. Its so valuable to you that you are obligated to say thank you if you are indeed a believer. But I'm thanking you, and I thank you because your support is my strength and if you don't support me, then I don't have that strength.
When I see you come out lively and strong as you have reported here tonight, it makes me feel very, very proud and makes me feel very, very special because there are not many leaders today who have genuine support. All Praise is due to Allah. And I know that with this kind of support, we are not going to fail. We are going to accomplish the job. It's a big job. But every day I see a sign that we are going to make it. We have made it this far and we have big successes behind us. And this two years that we have been battling to come out of the First Resurrection and establish ourselves in the Second, we have accomplished great things, great things.
We have done, things that I don't believe any organization, religion or movement was able, has ever been able to do. I don't know of it in history. Now if you know of it, you have to tell me. I don't know anywhere in history, where there have been as drastic a change as we have made with a smooth, an easy and smooth change. And our success has been a great one. Our attendance now is better than it used to be. We didn't lose attendance, we gained in attendance. We didn't lose progress, our progress increased.
If we consider all the goals, pardon me, our gains that we have realized since making the drastic changes that we've made, that we began making, pardon me, two years ago, approximately February 26, we will know beyond a shadow of a doubt that this is G-d's doing. That this is the doing of the Lord of the Heavens and Earth. That I have not brought this about by myself, but I have only been used to bring it about and it is G-d Himself, Allah, the Almighty, the Eternal, the One who lives and is not dead, who acts but needs no rest, neither slumbers nor sleeps, who is not physical and yet is in constant touch with every physical thing, though it be smaller than an atom. That G-d has brought me this far and that G-d is with me and is with you who follow. So, fear not, you are the righteous, the best and the most powerful. That was said a few years ago. Now it is a fact.
What I mean by a few years ago, about 40 some years ago, Master Fard Muhammad said, you are the righteous, the best and the powerful. He said, I can sit on top of the world and tell anyone that the most beautiful people or Nation is in the wilderness of North America. What did he mean in that saying? How are we the most beautiful people he had seen all over the world, when he had seen Muslims who had never touched pork, who had never known whiskey, cigarettes, fornication, adultery, stealing, thieving, robbery, rape, et cetera, gambling. He had seen people who had never known these things. There was no appearance of these things in their society.
Now what did he mean that we were the most beautiful? He meant that over here he saw a people that had a thirst for G-d's blessings, and that if G-d would bless them, they would be the best people on the face of the earth. Because no other people on the face of the earth showed as much thirst for G-d's pure waters as we did.
He had been among the people, the Muslim people of the world, and he had seen how anxious they were to hear something about G-d, about the Prophets and especially about the last Prophet and the message of the Qur'an that was revealed to him. But he had never seen people as anxious to learn about G-d and truth as you were. Conditions had made you like that. You had been separated from ancestors, separated from traditional knowledge of G-d, and you had been given all of your knowledge of G-d from the people who captured you or the people in whose hands you fell. Is that right? So, you wanted to know, is there something else beyond this?
I know these people are not our ancestors. The American people are the people that we came under or fell into or under as slaves. So is there something, what's beyond that this big question was in the mind of all of the descendants of our ancestors, the slaves, that big question. What was before that? What was before Jamestown, Virginia? You know, the big question was in all of our minds, and we didn't have a natural connection with the history of religion or the truth of religion. Our connection was one of adoption. We were allowed to take on the religion. And the religion didn't come from our true parents. It came from one that adopted us. Is that right? So, you always have a suspicion, is this really what was yesterday? So, you want to get back in touch with the past.
So, when the foreigner came here, who wasn't American or European, he was an Arab or at least looking like an Arab, we wanted to know. "Well stranger, can you tell me something about my past that these people didn't tell me?" Well, stranger, can you tell me something about G-d that these people didn't tell me? So, he saw in us more willingness and more a desire, an anxiousness, an eagerness to get knowledge of G-d. Knowledge of truth. We wanted to know the facts, we wanted the truth. We didn't trust the Caucasians who had enslaved us and who had denied us equality and justice. We didn't want, we couldn't trust them. So, we want to know maybe they told us the truth, maybe not. "Stranger can you tell me something. Is G-d the G-d they say or not?" So Master Fard, saw in us this great thirst for knowledge of the truth.
And he saw that once we got a little knowledge of G-d that we could accept as truth, we became more faithful to G-d. Even though we wrongly conceived Him, wrongly imagined Him, wrongly pictured Him, in our mind. We became more faithful to this G-d that we believe now is the G-d than those who had been serving G-d without any interruption over there in the lands we call Islamic lands. So, because of that, he said, I can sit on top of the world and tell anybody that the most beautiful people are in the wilderness of North America. How the most beautiful nation is in the wilderness of North America. Now you know the Imam Elijah Muhammad, even in the allegorical language, he did tell us that Master Fard, I don't know how many of you heard it, but I'm sure that if you followed for years, you heard him at least say it once openly.
But he used to say it to us in the private home setting often. He said that Master Fard wasn't talking so much in the present all the time, say he was talking in the future. So, when he said you were the most beautiful nation on the face of the earth, he was seeing into the future. Saying that if these people stay like this, one day when they really, when their eyes really come up open to the whole truth, they are going to be the most beautiful people on the face of earth and they're going to be the righteous. They are going to be the most powerful. So, he said, I can sit on the top the world and tell you, anybody, that you are the most beautiful. And he said, you are the righteous. Not that you were the righteous then, you were the righteous only then in spirit.
You had a willingness. A willingness, pardon me, you had a willingness for righteousness, but you hadn't yet been shown righteousness. So, you had been shown righteousness in part, but your willingness was complete. I'm not talking about every one of you, but I'm talking about the majority who accepted the leadership of Master Fard Muhammad and stuck with it and the majority who followed that leadership that was passed down to the Honorable of Master Elijah Muhammad and followed it. The majority of those people had a complete willingness to follow the righteousness of G-d. If they failed, it was because they just didn't know.
So, you see how slavery, how kidnapping, how cutting us off from our roots, from our traditional knowledge, family knowledge. Can't you see how that really worked to put us in position to rise over all people in terms of moral strength, devotion to truth, worship of G-d. Don't you see how that works to rise us to the top? Listen brother, Almighty G-d, if He brings a suffering or permits a terrible thing to happen in the lives of the people for which there is no clear justification, then G-d has allowed this to happen because He has a bigger thing He wants to give to that people.
And He is just preparing them to be big enough to receive the bigness of this thing He has to give them. So, by emptying us so thoroughly, taking this knowledge out of us, letting the society kill our knowledge, empty our minds of everything that is self, or original. Forcing us to have to take on things that of another man that are not ourselves. We had to take on his language, on his identity, on his mentality. Everything except his attitude. We couldn't take on his attitude because attitudes are something that's prompted by conscious behavior and you can't have your own attitudes if what you have taken on is not your own.
So, you couldn't consciously take on his attitude and he couldn't give you his attitude. Why? Because attitudes are something that arise out of something that's there and all that was there was him. So, in yourself, you were a dead man. Can you understand that? It's like taking on the framework of a man but not the life of that man. We take up, took on the mental framework, we took on the mental framework, the mind of the man, but we didn't take on the intelligence of the man. We took on the knowledge of the man but not the intelligence of the man.
So, intelligence, conscious intelligence are needed to affect attitudes, attitude changes. So, our attitudes were in the hands of the man. All of our attitudes were formed by the society. Is that right? And we couldn't change our attitudes unless the society changed our attitudes. Until a new mind came. When a new mind came, then we were able to change our attitude and take on a new attitude. And those attitudes were not our own. They were attitudes that rose up from a dead man. I'm going to explain what I'm telling you. I want you to understand. You had taken on a mind that was not yours. You mean to tell me the mind Master Fard gave us was not ours? Yes, I mean exactly that. It was not yours. It was his. He made it, and then gave it to you, and you couldn't establish it. You could only believe in it and defend it, but you couldn't connect it with its past.
You couldn't show how it descended to you. All you know is that you got it. Right? And whenever you had to defend it, you couldn't think with your own mind. You had to just echo what you were taught. Is that right? Yes. So, you were still a dead man, but a dead man who at least believed his mind was his own. Before you knew your mind wasn't your own, you knew your mind was a mind that was given to you by the people who enslaved you. But when Master Fard gave you a mind, you were told that that was the mind of your ancestors. So, you believed it was your own. Well, what about you, now Chief Imam? Aren't you giving us a mind of your mind? No indeed. I'm giving you The mind, and in giving you The mind, you get your mind.
The mind that I give you is as much yours as it is anybody else’s. And when you accept that mind, you begin to grow as an individual. You are able to handle this by yourself. Am I right or wrong? You don't need to keep referring back to any catechism. The original man is the Asiatic black man and 60,000 did this so many million years ago or so many thousand years ago. You don't need any facts and figures of that nature and you don't need any recorded message that you have to repeat over and over again. You can speak now from your own mind.
See, that's the difference. Once you were given truth, the light comes on and you find that you have control of yourself and that you are able to speak and defend your position by yourself. You don't even have to say Chief Imam. And if you have listened and learned the lesson that I've been giving out by the guidance and power of Almighty G-d, you can defend yourself by yourself, and you never have to mention my name. You never have to mention Master Fard's name. You never have to mention my father's name. You never have to mention the lessons that I'm giving you. You don't even have to use my words. You can use your own words. You don't have to use a word of the Holy Qur'an. You don't have to use a word of the Bible and you can defend yourself and your position. And then I can come behind and say, did you hear what he said? Did you hear what he just told you? The people say, "Yes." I say the same thing.
Hold up. The Qur'an says the same thing. The Bible says the same thing. Every truth teacher or every man that had truth, whether it was allegorical, symbolical, no matter what form it was in, it said the same thing. The sun, the moon, the stars, the earth, the water, the land, the air and everything that is inside of it, and everything between these two, says the same thing. All Praise is due to Allah.
So now, we are out of the grave. The Bible says that hell must give up the dead. That there is one coming who will have power over hell and death. You are looking at that one right now, whether you believe or not. Almighty G-d has been growing me for a long, long time. Yesterday, I was many righteous men and many well-meaning men, but they were all members of my body. Now all the members are together in me. This man is finally made. "Well, who you saying you are Imam W. Deen Mohammed?" I am the Christ. About 2000 years ago that man that lived was a sign of what you see right today.
Nothing but the plain simple truth. There's no great mysteries once we tell you. It's simple to understand. Prophet Muhammad, he is the last and Universal Prophet. He is the image of the movement of human society, fulfilled and completed in him. And what you see here today, in this day and time among you is the fulfillment of the movement of the individual makeup.
Prophet Muhammad represents society, and I represent the individual. The individual has to develop the complete man, being in touch with the world of reality and growing naturally as a person without having himself separated from reality by some false wall. You see? Say, "Well, didn't Prophet Muhammad do that?" Yes, but it's not manifest until today. What he was doing was bringing together reality and human existence. The reality of creation and the reality of human existence or human makeup. That's what his job was, so that we can see what is the proper order of human society. And in him, proper social order was established for society, not just for yesterday, for all times. But did we ever see in his day the fulfillment of the individual coming to full bloom? No. Say, "Well, Prophet Muhammad did." Certainly, he did! But it did not become a reality for the people.
If everything had become a reality for the people, and if there was no reason or no need for the individual human being to reach completion and be established before the eyes of the world in reality, then Prophet Muhammad wouldn't have said that Jesus and myself will be together in the end of time. And he wouldn't have said that the believers in Christ will not die before seeing him return.
He wouldn't have said these things. So, he said that it was a divine requirement that Jesus return. So that's why you find many Muslims believing in the return of Christ, return of Jesus, because there's authentic Hadith saying that he has to return. You find some authorities that differ. Say, "Well, we don't accept that. It's not right." But if you would question them, those who have knowledge, they will say, we say it is not right because we know it is not right the way they are saying it. You see, they're expecting a physical man to come back and that's not going to happen. But the knowledge that human beings as individuals should have in order to really survive without fear and without groping in the dark, is not only the knowledge of Revelation, but the knowledge of the secrets of Revelation concerning the real life of the individual, the makeup of the real man.
You have it hinted in the Holy Qur'an. Nafsin Lawamah. Nafsin La Mara. Nafsin Mutma'inah. Nafsin Lawamah means the man who is under the powers of his flesh. Hunger pains, sex appetites in his flesh, fear of being killed physically, all of these things that are connected directly with the flesh, the man that's under that, he's Nafsin A'La Mara.The Holy Qur'an says there is Nafsin Lawamah. This means the man who has come alive rationally and he's now looking at himself and truth and he's going back and forth between reality and himself to make proper adjustments on himself. I'm out of order. I'm not right. And his conscience bothers him when he's going on, out of order, and don't have the moral strength to put himself in order. So, he's Nafsin Lawamah. So, man comes up out of his flesh, gets out from under the power of the flesh into rational knowledge and begins to trust knowledge, sound knowledge. And he begins to rule his flesh. He knows better than to give himself to those things. And at that time, he begins to waver backwards and forward, between reality and himself. Right?
Then he comes out of that, if he's successful, Allah blesses him, to come out of that into Nafsin Mutmainah. Nafsin Mutmainah means that self that has found his rest. He doesn't do that anymore. He has stopped. You see, he has stopped because his own, he has taken on the nature of truth. There's no movement between two objects. He has become one with truth. Why does he have to go to truth and swing back to self? Self has become truth. So, there's no movement. There's just growth within himself. You see? He has identified with truth. You see? Now the Holy Qur'an tell us about these three stages of development and scripture before the Holy Qur'an told us about these. Body, mind, and spirit. You see? But the Holy Qur'an goes further.
And carries on a discourse that expands and clarifies even more. But the Holy Qur'an tells us that still these three are a mystery.
Do you have any proof for this? Yes. Says, "Allah will come with His angels in the clouds." Not just the Bible, the Holy Qur'an says. And again, the Holy Qur'an says, "In the judgment, Allah, the judgment will send up three columns of smoke."
What are these three columns of smoke? The smoke of sin? Yes. We don't need smoke to just to say sin. Smoke is cloudy. Smoke hides the light. Smoke is associated with fire. Fire is identified with rational knowledge. Light is associated with fire. Fire is identified as wisdom. The light of the flame is wisdom. Light is purer than the flame. Is that right? The flame itself is rational processes, rational knowledge working. The truth that is born by the process is light. The light of the flame is pure. The light of the flame is comparable. Light doesn't burn.
All right. I don't want to go too far with this. It would take too long. Okay, so the Qur'an says that three columns of smoke will be seen going up. These three columns of smoke, the wise in the religion, will tell you that it means the three selves. Not self in completion, but the three stages of self development. Your self develops along three main stages. That is first the sense body. That is in the flesh. Secondly, the rational body. That is in the intelligence.
And lastly, the morally rational body. That's called spiritual body. Why is it called spiritual? Because in order to be born it can't trust flesh or concrete things. In order to be born, it must trust the unknown. Something that it can't verify physically or rationally. "Oh, how can you trust something like that?" Because you feel in yourself that there's something stronger than what the world has given you. You feel in yourself that there's a stronger reality, a more powerful reality than what your physical eyes can reveal or what your limited intelligence can find. So, you trust what you feel.
And that trust is called spirit. Spirit. So, the only way to come to that truth is by spiritual giving, spiritual submission. And that's why it's called a spiritual development. necessarily. Nafsin Mutmainah doesn't mean spiritual development literally, but we identify all down through the history people have identified that form as a spiritual form. And it's not that it's spooky or invisible, it means that it is brought to birth or made birth by spiritual forces and not by physical forces and not by your own rational, limited rational abilities. You understand?
All right, so the Holy Qur'an is saying this and they identify the columns of smoke that's rising up with that.
Now if there's matter and we set a fire, the smoke that comes out of it is one, the flame that arise is another. The light that shines forth is another. Is that right? If it was pure light, it wouldn't make any smoke. Isn't that right?
So, the message that is given here in the Holy Qur'an is that confusion will last. Confusion, darkness, ignorance of the nature of the individual, the makeup of the individual. It will stay until the last day and in the last day the gross matter will be burned out of the confusion, and we'll see the flame, we'll see the light and we'll see the smoke. The smoke is the ignorance that was in the body. You see the time is now. It didn't happen back then.
Prophet Muhammad pointed to the sign. Jesus was the sign. Jesus was a sign. A sign of what? A sign of the rational makeup of the man. A sign that rational makeup of the man is going to become a full body in time. He has to return. That has to return. But now that sign that was Jesus is not the only sign.
So, Prophet Muhammad, being a Universal Prophet, setting and establishing the order of society and completing the building of society so we can see what a complete society should look like. That man fulfilling the Prophetic movement and completing the movement of Prophets or the succession of Prophets, he pointed to signs. Not just Jesus. He pointed to signs everywhere. Says in the sky there are signs. In the earth below there are signs. And he knew their signs and Jesus and his mother were signs. You see?
Now who understood that? That knowledge had to come. And you would be just a waste of creation, a waste of matter, if you've got your own thinking or reasoning faculties and refuse to accept and appreciate and follow me as the fulfillment of that. Nobody else in the history of man have come before the people and took scripture and say, "You want to know what this means?"
There it is. Bring it down and show it to you. You're brainy enough. You don't have to go to a theological school. You can be right from the coal yard.
Right from the farm, right from the packing house. Or from the factory. Or right from the streets as a pimp. And if you'll just sit down and listen, you say, "Gee man, I can understand that. I don't have no problem with that. Don't you know men have been wrestling with scripture? Wrestling with the signs, wrestling with terminology, and just couldn't make it? In fact, he gave up. It's impossible to make the ordinary person understand. Let's not try to make the ordinary person understand. Let's try to make each other understand.
So, the learned, I'm talking about the top scholars in religion, they were satisfied to just try to make themselves halfway understand the terminology of religion or in religion. But now we are living in a day where I give the terminology and any ordinary person can understand. And those up top admit the man is speaking the plain truth and they listen to and they say, "We want this too. We need this too." Did it ever happen before? No, indeed. That is the history. It never happened before.
This is the fulfillment of the Prophecy that says that Jesus shall return. Not Jesus the person, Jesus the Christ. Christ is a title. Christ is a title name for a particular movement. The movement of human minds. The individual mind has been moving to try to understand this world, the reality of this world, trying to understand the belief or the concept of G-d. His mind have been moving to do that. Prophets have come to advance that movement.
And everyone that moved, he was a object. The Prophet was the doer and he was the object that received the actions of that Prophet. Right? Didn't Christ say, "I'm the object, the Prophet of action"? He said, "I didn't come to change the law. I come to fulfill." And he refused to say he was a Prophet. Why? Because though he was a Prophet but not a Prophet in that sense. He was a Prophet whose role was to receive Prophecy and guidance from Prophets and respond to it and come into that form, that divine word or message was intended to bring about.
So, he said, "I am the way. I am the light. I am the truth." Isn't that what the Bible says about Jesus? What does he mean? That G-d? No, not G-d. The Prophet? No, not the Prophet, but I am the same that the Prophet is trying to produce, that G-d raised Prophets to produce. I am that. You are trying to follow it. I am that.
Okay. Hold up. Hang on. Now Prophet Muhammad is the last universal Prophet. So, we see all the Prophets in him. He was trying to do it, and he did do it. The Qur'an, it is the completed message. He completed the action, the work that will bring the completion, the man, the individual that G-d is opting on with the hands of His Prophet. You understand?
So, in the last Prophet comes, he finished the work on the object. When the work is finished, we ought to see the object finished.
The object is Christ. Now let me go again. I want this to be thoroughly clear. Let me repeat it. Prophets have been coming to complete an object, complete the forming of an object. Those Prophets themselves had to be complete for that time in order to complete the forming of that object. Following me now. If Jesus in his day wasn't complete enough as a Prophet, because he was both Prophet and Christ. Study the Qur'an and Bible, both Prophet and Christ at the same time.
If he wasn't powerful enough or complete enough as the object, then he wouldn't have been able to do the job on the object as a Prophet. As a Prophet, he was doing the job on the object, but he himself was the object that had been completed for that period of time that was before him. By the works of Prophets that went before him.
So, he said, "I fulfill." Not only fulfill. "I complete what went before me. If you want to see the completion of what went before me, look at me. You will see from Adam, you will see from Adam to the last Prophet in me." That's what Jesus was saying. Fulfill the law. But at the same time he was a Prophet predicting into the future. Is that right? Turning light into the future and telling us that this ain't all of it, something more has to come.
When Prophet Muhammad came, he preached as a Prophet, the last Prophet, and he was working on the object. The object is man, human being. Not you as a male sex creature, you as a person, as a human creature. His work was to complete that and he was working on it and he had the tools for the completion of the job. So, he completed it. But now after the action has been done, in turn we going to see the object.
So, since he was the actor on the object, the object had to come later, you see? All right. That's not saying that he himself as object because the Prophet is a person too. He ain't an angel. He's not a spook. So as an object, he was complete too. But he couldn't say it. He couldn't tell you. He couldn't preach it. Why he couldn't preach it? Because the mind of the individual wasn't yet ready for it. Not only the mind of individuals, but Prophet Muhammad's mind as an Arab wasn't ready for it. Prophet Muhammad's mind as a Prophet was ready, but Prophet Muhammad's mind as an Arab was not ready.
Now I know I'll shake some minds by saying these things. Let me explain. If his mind as an Arab was ready, G-d would've given it to his people at that time. But G-d doesn't just seek men for the times. G-d seeks to men for the future. And a Prophet is a man that's sent not only for the time but for the future. Do you understand?
All right. So, Prophet Muhammad was a Prophet. He was sent not only for the time but for the future. So, his mind as an Arab mind was a part of the society. It was just the best mind in the society, the innocent, true upright mind of the society and that mind received Revelation. And he as a Prophet, as an individual, he had to submit and be protected at times, because of the Revelation.
Many times he was worried. Doesn't the Qur'an tell you that he was worried? That shows you that the message was beyond his mind. His message was universal, a message for all times. He himself as a moral person, as a spiritual and moral body, was complete and fit for that message. But as a worldly man, as a man who got his knowledge and his mind from the society as an Arab? No.
I don't know if you understand me, but I'm just telling you some truth. "Well, what about your mind?" My mind is of a new time. My mind is a mind is almost 1,400 years behind that time. Over that long period, over 1,400 years, G-d, through His natural working has brought the mind of the world to the position where the mind is ready now to not only be doer, Prophet, acting to form an object, but the mind is ready to come into the form and be the object. See?
So, Christ, his title and his image and his nature's role is to be the object of G-d's will. The object of G-d's will is to establish as an example one who follows His will, obeys His will, and not only obeys His will, but one who understands and is at peace in the light.
So, G-d's will is to bring the product into light of His own making so that the product will not have the grope in the dark. So, that product will have understanding, complete understanding. That knowledge comes in time. And the history, the scripture that you read, telling you of the past history and of the promise that there will come a time when all ears will hear, all eyes will see, all knees will bow. We've come to that time. We live in a very, very special and blessed time. Our leader is the Prophet, the one who corrected and established all the Prophets after they had been knocked down and completed the work of bringing us truth and guidance in the form of revealed knowledge, revealed script is Prophet Muhammad, May peace and blessings be upon him.
So, he is my leader. Prophet Muhammad is your leader, Chief Minister and you're telling me that as an object, you're complete? And as an object, Prophet Muhammad was just complete morally and spiritually, but not as an Arab? That's right. The world was not ready for all of this understanding. So was no need for him to give all of that understanding. And if there was no need for them to give all that understanding, there was no need for them to have all of that understanding.
But he did have the knowledge and he knew that in these signs is knowledge for eternity. And he knew that in time these signs are going to be understood and that no matter how long man exists on earth, he knew that he had pointed the way for their salvation and for their advancement, for their progress. He pointed to the sign. He understood G-d's Revelation. He understood the completion of G-d's Revelation and he pointed to the time for all times in the future and for all people.
But if you think he understood every sign, well you understand something I don't understand. They have to convince me because I read where he worried. And I watch and I see how he dealt with situations and problems. He dealt with them as one who was growing in knowledge. As one who knew he had all that it took and no condition or problem or circumstances would come that he couldn't deal with. But he did it as one who was waiting and trusting and waiting for G-d to show him how to live his own message. And G-d was showing him step by step until the end when all the Revelation came, he didn't say, "I have to live on to show you how to live all that was revealed to me." He said, "Upon G-d's inspiration of guidance to him the revelation, "This day I have completed my favor on you." Is that right?
And has perfected for you your religion and chosen for you Al Islam, as religion. Al Islam. Not Islam, Al Islam, and has chosen for you The Islam. Nowhere in the Holy Qur'an will you read where it says Islam. I have chosen for you Al Islam, The Islam, as a religion.
So then he passed on and the followers knew that that book, though he had been gone, that book was guidance for periods of time and that there were things that had to come out and be revealed in time and that there were things to be acted out by people that Prophet Muhammad had not acted out, but in time and knowledge would be learned and what was established in the pattern of his life would still exist as an example for us. You understand? So, in his lifetime he received Revelation that was complete for all time. And by following what he did receive, he followed the call and the essence of those teachings.
So even in his example, if we don't want to know how to act out the new understanding that we have, we still can go to Prophet Muhammad's example. We have to go to his example to see how we're best carried out. He's not only the Prophet, the Messenger, and the one who received the Revelation for all time, but he's also the example for all time.
"Well, then you are being complete as an object, how come you are not the example for all time?" I'm no more than one following Prophet Muhammad. If I be a true example of what I'm receiving, I'm doing nothing but following Prophet Muhammad. He's already been the true example of what I'm explaining. He received the Holy Qur'an. He lived it. He was a true example of it. What I have is nothing more than the Holy Qur'an.
Now, with my extra understanding on things that don't pertain to that time or things that hadn't yet come into the question in those days. With my extra understanding, if I'm example, who has the example over me? It is Prophet Muhammad. I'm the example in this area, in this time, and for these circumstances. But there was a first example who was the first complete example and it's Prophet Muhammad. Follow me and you'll come to understand.
"Well then what do you mean then by you being before the completion of the object, the object made complete?" The mystery is removed. Jesus was a sign of what was to come, but they crucified him and killed him in the flesh, in the symbolic mystical sense. So, they gave us flesh as Jesus. Is that right?
So, he was in the world to show the real Jesus, which is the real Christ or the real individual. He did his work and soon as he went out of the world, they covered his work up and showed us Christ in a flesh body. You understand? Now Prophet Muhammad came back, came behind him with the complete message for all times and pointed to him and said, "Jesus is a sign." And that sign, that Jesus has to come back. Not that Jesus, but Christ has to come back in order for the world to know what that sign stood for. You understand?
All right. So now the cover is taken off. The mystery is taken off. And we don't guess now who is Christ. Prophet Muhammad said upon the gift of Revelation, he said "They crucified him not." Is that right? "And neither did they slaughter or slay nor crucify him. But it was made to appear so to them." You see? So, G-d gave Prophet Muhammad the right understanding of Jesus, that Jesus is not, the Christ, that is, is not a physical body. They didn't slay or crucify that man. It just was made to appear that way to them.
In their corrupt terminology or symbolic teachings, Jesus or the Christ appears slain and crucified to them. But the actual reality has never been slain nor crucified. See, this is what the Qur'an is saying. But don't you know he left the Muslim world believing that still Christ was a physical person and that Christ will return physically? Not that he taught them that, but the knowledge he gave them wasn't enough on Christ to make them come to the complete clear understanding of Christ.
Muslims, right now, many of them believing that Jesus is going to come down in physical body and descend down on a certain Mosque in Syria, I think it is. They believe this. And there's those who believe that his birth was a physical birth by a physical virgin woman without a physical father. You see? There are those that believe that. I'm talking about top scholars. I'm talking about the vast majority.
Now with the clear teachings that you hear coming from me, a teaching that has been given into my hands by the Prophet Muhammad. To him from G-d, to me from him. I look at what he received and I see here where it says in the heavens a sign, in the skies of sky. The Siliwat means in the skies of G-d. There is not just one sky there. They go on and on and on. You understand? In the skies of sky there are signs. In the earth, there are signs. In that what is between there are signs. And in you, old man, there are signs.
Well, G-d guided me to ponder, to think on that. And I pondered. I thought and I thought and I thought, and G-d blessed my sincere efforts and showed me what He was saying. The Revelation came to Prophet Muhammad. But the understanding is not clear until today. So is there another proof in the Qur'an? Says that in that day you'll see Yana Al Qin. Yana Al Qin. Means with an eye and a vision, with an eye that has a vision that is clear beyond any doubt. Won't be no guesswork, won't be no foggy areas, all will be clear.
"Oh, but that will only come when the physical creation is gone." You are a physical fool. Just keep listening to me. That's right. You are one of the physical fools. You think G-d is so weak that He has to tear up this creation before He can bring you the truth? No. When this one is finished, He's going to give you a new creation. A scope and feel for development with a new, entirely new kind of nature. A nature that is not limited and weak as this one is. What good would that be in getting rid of this if we are not going to have a higher form of creation and a higher human potential.
Here, we have the high aspiration, but our form won't allow us to fulfill it or to reach it. So, G-d is going to give us a higher form of creation. Therefore, we'll have a higher nature and we'll have an ability to reach the limits of our present aspirations. But He doesn't have to wipe away this physical creation to bring you the truth of what's been going on this Earth. Before this one is out, we must see all of it. You've been told it's coming one day but it's hard for you to realize, "Why me? Why me? All of those generations, why its this one? Why its this time?"
Don't you know no matter what time it came in, the people would say that? If it happened 50 billion years from now, those people would say, "How come in all the time that was before us and will be after us, how come it happened around us?" I may not live to see it but this old world going to come around to acknowledge and announce throughout the land, throughout the Earth, that the mysteries that we have been groping under and fumbling with has been revealed in Chief Imam WD Mohammed.
Let me go to the board now. Those diagrams help. I think I can carry this with me. You're not going to be here too much longer. You know in the creation all about us, there are worlds, worlds, worlds, right? We can't see the end of them. So, I'm just going to draw a circle, ok? In your mind, I want you to try to conceive this as all of it. It's impossible. We don't know the end of it. In fact, there's no end to it. You know how come? Every second, it's being expanded. Now can we get this board out in the center here? Let's get the board about right here. That's right. Now more of you can see it, right? All right. What has been the mystery? I'll tell you what has been the mystery. I wish all the people listening to me on the hookup could see but if you can't see the diagram, you follow, and maybe when we transcribe this, we'll put the diagrams.
The diagrams are not necessarily that important, but it will help so I'm going to do a little sketching on the board. Now, the mystery has been this universe. What is it? What is its nature? What is its purpose? Little bittie me is somewhere there in it. You can't even hardly see that dot, can you? Well, I'm smaller than that in it. Much, much smaller than that in it. Little bittie me in it since time began for human beings. I have been looking at it and wondering, "What is the mystery behind this?" As we grew in knowledge, we began to see that there are more mysteries in us than there are up there. Just listen carefully. Listen carefully. So, when the great teachers, spiritual teachers, saw that there are more mysteries in the individual than there is in the creation outside of him, they stopped using this and they start using a man, the image of a man, and they start looking at the man saying, "What? For what is he here? What is his purpose? How was his life formed? Where did he come from? Where is he going?"
So, this mystery became quite and if you read scripture, it says the mysteries from the foundation of the earth. I believe that's how it goes. You recall that, some of you Imams? That mystery, Christ is the mystery from the foundation of the world. What does that mean? Means for as far back as man can go, this thing has been a mystery. Didn't just start with Jesus. Has been a mystery for as far as we can go back. What is this mystery? What is man? First, it was what is the universe? For what is it here? What is its purpose? Then it pointed to man. We saw that all out there is in us. So why look all out there to study? It's easier to just to look right at the human being and study. So, they stopped looking at the whole universe and they start looking at the individual and they called him the micro, M-I-C-R-O I think. The microcosm. C-O-S-I-S-M I think. Is that it?
Speaker 1:
C-O-S-M.
IWDM:
No. No. 'Cosm. C-O-S, 'cosm. Is that it? Okay. All right. So, we'll forget about that. Forget about the spelling. I think that's it. It looks right. Microcosm. Now you know what microorganism means. It means teeny organism. So small you can't see it with a microscope. Where they get this from? This old terminology. Okay, so microcosm means the 'cosm. C-O-S-I-M or M, I'm not sure of the spelling. Yeah, now we have it. I wasn't satisfied with that spelling. I knew something was wrong. There's no I, just M. C-O-S-M, I think. 'Cosm. So, let's change this here. C-O-S-M. So here microcosm and here is the 'cosm. But once they discovered the micro, that there were two, one is really a totality of the other one. In the universe, you see in the man all that's in the universe. That's this belief.
All right, so this one became then macro, I think. M-A-C-R-O I think it is. Is that right? You all familiar with these terms, you can correct me here. Macrocosm. Macrocosm means the big 'cosm. The big one. Micro means the small one. They're both 'cosms which mean they're both the same. One is just in a big image, the other one is in a small image. One in a big form, the other in a small form. You see, this was their belief. So, they stopped focusing in on the universe then and they start focusing in on the individual, to study him, to learn the mystery behind everything.
So, they came up with the belief that man is the archetype or the total representation, a type totally representing the whole creation. Everything. That in him you can see the universe, whole universe. Then this idea progressed and progressed and progressed until the artificial mentality took it over. When they got it, it digressed and digressed and digressed. It digressed into what you know now as Jesus on the cross. Actually this concept here is what we call Christ. Not just the concept in his figure, the drive of the individual to understand himself, that concept. So, we have been told that the man has been trying to see G-d, right? No, that's wrong. Man has been trying to see himself. You understand? Man doesn't have to see G-d. Go to the spiritual societies. Those societies that believe in G-d, they don't have no problem believing in Him without seeing Him. It ain't no burden on them. They're not worried.
G-d has put it into our nature to be satisfied not seeing Him and people don't have to see G-d to be satisfied. But somebody can fill your mind with a false idea and make you think you have to see G-d to be satisfied. But as soon as somebody comes to you with the truth, you don't feel you have to see G-d to be satisfied. How many of you think you have to see G-d to be satisfied? Raise your hand. Be truthful. Here's a brother. He think he have to see Him to be satisfied. Tell me how come you have to see Him to be satisfied? No, we are doing this not for you. We are doing this for all of us and this is going to help all of us. Now, why do you think you have to see G-d?
Speaker 2:
My relatives ask me to show them G-d.
IWDM:
Show you what? They say show you G-d? Your relatives. Are they Muslims?
Speaker 2:
No, they are Christians.
IWDM:
Yes, but they think that you should show them G-d has a physical body like Jesus, is that right? Now he might have a different understanding. He might think that what we are talking about is show us G-d in knowledge. Explain G-d. I'm not talking about explain G-d. I'm talking about show you G-d. See G-d like I see you. I see you with my physical eyes. People don't feel that they have to see G-d like that. Right? Yeah. Well he said yes. Now he understands what I'm saying. See, people don't feel they have to see G-d with no physical eye and people don't feel they have to know everything about G-d. Not a believer. Somebody sincerely believe in G-d, they don't feel they have to know everything about G-d. All they want to know is there's G-d and what G-d wants from me.
"Is He the kind of G-d I can worship and what do He want from me?" That's all they want to know. This is nature. G-d has put this in our nature, all right? But we do want to know ourselves. Every man, every woman, every mind wants to know, "What is this?" From the time you come in the world, you pulling on a tittie and looking at it. Little baby take tittie, he do sucking, looking at it, looking at that tittie. Pretty soon, you catch him looking at his thumb. You seen little baby. Say "What is this?" The knowledge that we need is self-knowledge. The thing we need to find is self. You understand? You don't need to find G-d. G-d is too big for you to find.
He's the one behind everything. What He wants you to do is find yourself. And this has been the movement of man, the movement of human mind, human intelligence, from the days gone past 'til now was to learn, "What is this human being? What am I here for? What am I supposed to do? Why I act like I do?" Don't you know the human being is a mystery for the human being is not G-d? G-d has never been a mystery. The mystery for the human being is the human being. In yourself, you hearing yourself talk to something. "What in the hell am I talking to?" "I want to go see my girlfriend." Who the hell is this talking saying, "I want to go to my girlfriend"? "Hey Wallace, don't do that."
Who was that saying, "Wallace, don't do that"? All of those mysterious things are happening in me, right? Okay, so I want to know what is it. G-d has put a big mystery before me in myself because He knows that once I learn something about this world, I may stop and be satisfied just to eat physical food, sleep and have physical sex and go into the ground. G-d don't want me to stop there. G-d want me to grow and grow and grow so He put in me a mysterious makup that forces me. The world don't occupy me, myself will occupy me. You don't need nothing outside to tell us your intelligence. A man sitting by himself on an island in nowhere would have enough to challenge his intelligence. "The hell? What in the world going on in here?"
All right, so this is the mystery. This is the mystery and the movement towards discovering that is the Christ movement. That's the Christ movement and that movement is the Will of G-d. So that movement, that one acting on that, he is Christ. Jesus called himself Christ. He called everybody Christ. "Christ in me, Christ in you." Is that right? "I in my father, my Father in me. I in you and you in me. Isn't that what he said? Letting the people know that, "I'm the Christ alright but I'm also in you." You see? What am I? I am the will of G-d. Where did I come from? I was created by G-d. When? From time immeasurable.
Where was I before this physical creation? I was with G-d. How was I with G-d? G-d had the will to do me before He made creation. So, I was with G-d and then G-d brought about His will by creating the physical world finally gave birth to me. My identity. The object of creation. I'm the object for what... I am the purpose of creation. Creation wasn't made for nothing. Creation was made so that it would manifest or produce me. Once it produced me, then G-d's purpose began working independently of creation. Creation now has been freed from creation to carry out G-d's Will that is above and beyond creation. Hope you're following. So, G-d created me and now here he is separated. Freed me from the physical creation. I don't have to obey physical creation. I can turn backwards, go against it.
I can do all kind of crazy things. I can change my nature, take on any old nature, break the laws of gravity, break all the laws. Yes, because G-d has freed me from creation. After He created what He want, then He cut me loose. Now you don't have to follow that. There ain't enough room in that for you. So, I move out independently now and the movement that He has put me on, He has fixed it. I can't get out of it. It's to find more and more knowledge, get more and more knowledge of myself. The movement of man was from physical knowledge to human knowledge. The physical sciences to the human sciences, right? Then from the human scientists to what we call the spiritual sciences, and they are nothing but human sciences too. Spiritual science and human science.
But because it encompasses the whole creation, we call it spiritual science. It's not spiritual science. It's human science or science of creation. The total creation and the man being the crown or the mind. The human being, being the crown. Now, since we understand something now of the mystery of Christ, let's go back and see can we sum this up on the Christ. If G-d have been moving us all along to come to see ourselves... And this is the Christ movement, understand? This movement in creation and especially in human beings. Well, it can't be in anything except the human being. But we trace this development even through the birth of creation.
This movement called Christ finally comes to completion. When it comes to completion, then we see the Christ as he really is. Not G-d. You're never going to see G-d. You can only know something of G-d. You can see something of G-d. You can see the role of G-d, but G-d Himself, actually G-d, no. If you could see G-d, you would be G-d. And that's not in your nature. Your nature is not driven to see G-d. Your nature is driven to obey G-d, to fear G-d, to obey G-d, to worship G-d. Not to see G-d. Your nature is to see yourself. You hear Christian, good old Christian, good old Muslim, "Oh, I'm going to meet my maker. I just have to see my G-d." Talk seriously with them and they'll tell you. Say, "No, I don't mean that I have to actually see G-d. I mean that I'm going to satisfy G-d. I'm going to be in G-d's presence. I'm going to be in communication with G-d.
I'm going to know that I'm with G-d." You see, that's a difference. Would G-d put in our nature to want something that was impossible for us? No. No. And I'm telling you, it's impossible for you to see G-d in His entirety. G-d has not put that in your nature. You are fooling yourself if you have that in your nature. But G-d has put it in your nature to see yourself. You don't believe that this physical body is the end of you. Now I know some of you say, "Well I believe it." You fooled yourself. You aren't doing nothing but fooling yourself. Human beings naturally believe that there's something beyond this. This is nature. Nature tells me, nature make me suspect that this is not all of it. That there's something more. All right. So, when this movement now becomes complete and it rests, we are satisfied. That's the fulfillment of the mystery or the revealing or the opening of the mystery and the showing of the man or of the human being in real, clear, complete form. When we see that, we rest. I'm rested.
I don't have the same burden on my mind that I used to have. That burden is gone. This is a new creature you see here. The burden is gone. I don't have the conflict in myself anymore. I know that I don't have two or three persons talking to me. I know that there's but one me, one person, and that one that says, "You should do so and so and so," I know what he is. He's me. Hold up. And that one that's listening is his ears. And that one that carries it out is him. He speaks, his ears listen and he acts. I know that. See, the ear, the hearing, is the physical makeup. I speak, then the hearing, because it's a physical thing or is formed in the physical body, it listens. It's me listening.
See you got a mouth? Who's speaking? Me. You got ears? Whose ears? Mine. They hear physical words, but in myself, I confuse my ears with my mouth. So, when my mouth speak and my ears hear, I think that two person. No, my mouth spoke, my mind spoke with my mouth and my ears heard. My mind heard what my mind said. Do you understand? Listen. My mind spoke it. Then my mind heard what it spoke. Then my mind acts on what it felt it should do. You see? Ain't no two or three persons in me but why have G-d made me like this? So that I would grow into knowledge of myself. I would keep working until I discover all the mysteries.
You understand? So, we talk of man as body, mind and spirit. As flesh and all these things. You have grown up through flesh therefore you are in the habit of hearing with flesh. Before your mind was formed to hear, your ears heard and its habit and nature to hear with your ears. So, when you talk within yourself, you still hear with your ears. You understand? So, it's like two things going on. Two people. I hope you can understand. I know they can understand. I know Doctor Akbar, I know Dr. Salaam, I know these men who have studied psychology and the makeup of a human being, they understand. They know that a person can become in the habit of identifying himself with a certain object or with a certain member of his body and he will talk to that as if it's himself. He'll relate to it as if it's himself.
Now, nature grew us up out of the physical and we first used this before our mind heard and could understand what was being said. So, it's nature. It's natural to in yourself think that there's somebody else. So, who is that? Your ears. So, what does the book say? Blessed are they who have an ear. Didn't say ears. Two ears. "Who have an ear." What is "an ear"? Means one inside that listens to the one who is speaking. So blessed is he who have a mind that listens to what his intelligence is saying. You understand? My intelligence is speaking but my intelligence can only speak. I got another nature in me and that nature in me is also a nature of my mind.
My mind has intelligence to speak and my mind has the past knowledge to listen. Knowledge from yesterday must be put together with this situation of today. And when I refer what's going on today with what happened yesterday, I look at it and I say, "Well, it's in agreement with the strength and with the truth of yesterday. Okay, I better do such and such." Is that right? So, all I'm doing is referring what the intelligence, the voice of now, I'm referring it to the past so that the knowledge and truth of yesterday can verify, support the position today or either condemn that position and I'll say, "No, I shouldn't do that." Is that right? But we think of these things as two because we used to speaking with a mouth and hearing it with ears, do you see?
So, the physical has trained that that was in the physical. We behave within because of what has happened without. That that has been happening without or in the physical has dictated and formed the conduct or the behavior within. So, when you speak now and you listen, you shouldn't be confused. That's you speaking. That's you listening. You speak with the voice of the present, are prompted by the present and you listen with the knowledge of the past. Then you make your decision for the future. Is that simple? All right, I hope you understand. All right. So, this kind of knowledge you get when you understand the human makeup. That really I'm not many persons in one, I'm one person developing through certain stages like the butterfly who once was a caterpillar.
He is a caterpillar and then he goes into a cocoon and rests for a while and come out flying a butterfly. Is that right? All right. So, I came up in my flesh and I took on fleshly form and fleshly life and fleshly movements or activity in the society. But if I'm lucky, I come into a higher mind and that higher mind brings with it that that was... You see the caterpillar, he doesn't die, he just loses a shell of skin, right? The body of the butterfly is the caterpillar. So, he keeps the same body, he just sprout wings. So, I am a sense body, a flesh body. In that body is really me, that's a sense body. I'm not flesh now but I am the sense in this flesh, you understand? And the sense in that flesh also is connected with deeper things or higher things than me. Now when I evolve from the flesh form, rise above the powers of the flesh. Then I don't lose the first form that I got. First form was a sense form. What do we call that? The five senses.
So, in my rational body, which is intelligent makeup, the Nafsin Lawamah, I'm also five senses. Now if I go and break nature and lose my sense makeup... Caterpillar didn't lose his caterpillar when he became a butterfly. He just took off the deceitful outer covering and kept the body on the inside, right? Okay. So, when I come into my rational body, I shouldn't lose my sense body. Don't you know many men come into rational body and lose their sense body? In fact, the rational knowledge of this world is not rational knowledge. And I started off telling you these things but it took all this time to bring them home. The rational knowledge of this world is not rational knowledge. How can it be rational when you are breaking the laws of your five senses? Is that rational? And they call it empirical knowledge. Meaning that it's governed by the five senses. My eyes tell me something. My ears tell me something. My touch, my feelings tell me something, right? My hearing tell me something. My taste tell me something. So, they say their rational knowledge are the knowledge of the five senses. They are liars.
My eyes tell me more than that this thing is moving physically. My eyes tell me that this thing is filthy. My eyes tell me that this thing is unnatural. My ears tell me that this thing is wrong. Not only rationally wrong, my ears tell me this thing is morally wrong. All right? My ears have brought, my five senses have brought more messages to my mind than a physical scientific message. My five senses have brought all the message to my mind. You can't divorce morality from five senses. You can't divorce spirituality from five senses. But the false sciences of this world has separated morality and spirituality from the five senses. Is that right? It can be proven that they're wrong.
They're all connected and your five senses establishes those things just like it establishes that this thing is physically moving. An animal got more five senses than that. That's all we can tell is that it's physically moving and its physical movement suggest this and we come up with atomic knowledge, chemical knowledge, physical knowledge. And when we jump out of that into human knowledge or psychology, we say it is pseudoscience or part science. They are all fooled.
The highest of science and the most exact science is the spiritual science. I hate to call it that. It's revealed knowledge. That's the highest. It sets proper focus on everything and brings you the truth and removes the darkness and mysteries from all things. So, when Christ comes to fullness, he is complete and he's no more a mystery because he's known in reality. Who is that? That's me and you. Christ proper in the scriptural text is the individual man who comes in that role with knowledge of how to advance that movement.
You understand? But Christ common is all of us. All of us. And the G-d that the scripture is telling us that we will come to see face-to-face is no more than ourselves. Now brother, why is that? Why was it important for me to tell you that tonight on this brother night? Because G-d is also a problem for man and wife, child and parent relationships. Our crazy mixed up idea about G-d has been a burden and a plague, a trouble in the whole life of society. If we understood these mysteries and got rid of them as mysteries, don't you know it would be easier for us to live with each other as husband and wife, as parent and children?
How can the society live together naturally if we have unnatural, crazy ideas messing up and plaguing our minds all the time? All right. Excuse me, I'll wipe my face a little bit here. With this knowledge now, we can give the Creator... There's no one or two or three Creators. There's One Creator. Allah the Almighty G-d. We can give Him due and proper worship. We can devote ourselves now to obeying Almighty G-d Allah without having the burden of confusion on our mind. We don't have to now worry about seeing Him, meeting Him in the judgment. We can now get about the real business of doing what He intended for us to do on this earth. And that is to grow. Grow mentally, morally, spiritually and as a civilized society. We can get about this job now, get about doing this job and make progress behind progress. Unlimited progress.
We can resist eating pork, drinking whiskey using narcotics, smoking reefers. We don't have to have no false high now. You who have followed me and understand what I've told you, you have the strength now to resist all those things. Lem me tell you something. Time Is limited so I appreciate your applause but if you just bow your head or gesture or say Allah Akbar, anything, we don't have to interrupt with applause. I appreciate them and I feel like applauding myself. You'd be surprised if you knew how I want to applause. I wish I had about a trillion hands to clap with.
Now you who have listened, have followed. You have the strength right now. Don't tell me you don't. I know you. You have the strength right now to not only do without whiskey, dope and things like that. You have the strength and I don't care if you're nothing but 16 if you've understood me, you have the strength to never touch a woman again in your life and be happy. I'm telling you what I know. You can lie to yourself and me if you want to, but I know if you follow what I said and have understood the message that I've just given you tonight, you have the strength to not to touch another woman, I don't care if you're just in your bloom, 16 or 17 or 18, for the rest of your life and it won't destroy your happiness.
You'll be able to be a happy man because you have a much bigger thing to think about and to do. But when the world don't give you nothing to think about and nothing big to do, all these new things take over you, brother. "Well Chief, you got a wife." Yes, I'm supposed to have a wife but I can live without her. She don't lead me. I follow Allah. I don't have no weakness for her. My weakness is for Allah. And if you understand what I'm telling you, you won't have no weakness for no woman. In fact, a woman want to see my strength, start moving against it. If a woman want to really see my strength, all she have to do is let me know she's moving against it.
I can enjoy her. I like to kiss. I like to lay flesh against flesh. I don't like no pants and bloomers and whatnot between me and my woman. I want you know that I'm a natural man. I like flesh to touch flesh and I tell you, I don't want the lights out. I don't hate what I see. I want the lights on. It's this old grafted world of a grafted mentality that makes every man, though he's with his legal wife, feel that he's committing adultery. Man married the woman, got a license and still feel like he's committing adultery. "Turn out the lights, baby." He know he don't want those lights out but he reach over and put them out because she reminded him that what we doing is sinful.
Turn out the lights, not supposed to see what... We don't want to see what we are doing. They teach us from the cradle, in fact from the mother's tits, that sex is a sin and man was born in sin. And this old crazy idea reaches everybody in the western society. In fact, it even reached those in the Eastern society. You'd be surprised how many people have come under this crazy kind of idea. Can't have sex without feeling they're sinful. If you get this new understanding, you'll come out of the grip of artificial mentality and you'll be free. Don't turn the lights out. The light's going to come on in the morning. Sun going to rise. Did G-d turn off your sex when the sun came up? If it was to be done only in the dark when the sun rise, you wouldn't have that desire. But sometimes while the sun is up, you have that desire more than you do during night. But you can't go with your wife. "I can't have no sex in the day. This thing is for night."
You are tired and all worn out. Woman been at home sleeping all the day while you were working. You think the night is the only time you can have her so you try to do it at night. End up half doing it. Hold up. Yeah. All right. It ain't because you can't do it, it's because you're doing it in the wrong time. When everything is on the recline.
Shoot. You're tired. You're tired, tired, tired. Eyes falling down. Look, even the eyes falling down. Now how you think that's going to rise up? Let me tell you something. Get away from that crazy idea that sex is dirty, is wrong and something you all do in the dark. No. If you tired at night, sleep at night. And when you are rested, do that. Let me tell you something. You can be physically tired and carry out a mental action. But if you're physically tired, brother, your mind is affected by that. But worse than that, your body, the nature just ain't with it. So, you use your mind to force your nature, to force your physical body.
You're tired as hell tonight. Worked two hours overtime, 10 hours. Hard job. Body worn out. Woman, she wants sex. And you want sex too, but you ain't ready for no sex. And it's nighttime and this is the time that you think is for sex. Okay, so you got to have sex tonight, right? So here you go forcing your mind. You have a desire so you force your mind to get with it. Sleepy, you don't want no sex. You want to go to sleep but you feel like, "I got to get it while it's ready." Right?
Yeah. "It's ready and the time is right. It's ready and it's nighttime." So, you force yourself to get into it. Here you go. Boom, boom, boom and that's it. All right. Let me show you. Don't get your mind off of Islam, now. I'm trying to show you the depth of Satan. Now your wife, she start complaining. "Honey, why don't you do something for yourself? Why don't you learn something?" You know how they can come down. They don't always speak like this but sometimes they just hint or with silence, they can tell us many things.
All right, so now we feel under pressure. Manhood is on the spot, right? So here we go. We are going down the drug store to buy some high potency tablets. Capsules. We use that for a while. After a while, that ain't doing too much good. See something new. What do you call it? Zinc. New remedy. Zinc for men. Go on in and get you some zinc. After a while, that ain't working. Go and get on the natural kick. Eating the wheat germ, lecithin, dried fruit, nuts, special roots. Now most of them, they done fell down to Satan long time ago. But here, this brother, he just went all the way. After a while, he can't go no farther. So, there he is, the night down there with his face in the bushes.
They came from dust. From dust to our heart, from dust to our return. So, look how that Satan grafted mentality now has burdened you with unnatural ideas about yourself and your nature and have caused you and your woman to just drive, drive, drive for something that never can be fulfilled. You understand? And sent you right on back into the womb where you came from from the beginning. G-d brought you out of that to start your life. Then you have stuck your head back in there, reduced you. Satan reduced you. Satan brought you back from the man and put you back. He laughed at you. "He's a man. I'm going to stick his head right back in the womb. I'm going to make him less than a baby. A baby suck titty, I'm going to make him suck vagina." That's Satan, brother.
Now let me tell you something, I hope I talk to you again. I hope we have a talk like this at least once a month because I want you to see what Satan has done to us. Not no spooky spirit. A bunch of wicked conspirators. Human beings. I want to show you what they've done to us. Now, do you think this makes your life beautiful? Do you think that makes your woman love you more? Let me tell you something. Nature is designed against that. And that nature tells that woman that you are doing wrong. I don't care how much she tells you she love it. "Honey, I just love the way you treat me. Oh baby, I never lived until I met you. I knew nothing about the pleasures of life. I didn't even know myself. Baby, I didn't know that I could feel like this until I met you." Don't forget that that woman is conscious of the fact that you can't use your natural tools anymore to satisfy her and you have to use the thing that you eat with, that you eat food with, to satisfy her.
She began to look in your face and see a penis. I'm telling you the fact of the nature of the mind. No, I'm not joking brother. She may not know it in her conscious mind, but under the surface of the water of her mind, in her subconscious, that's what's moving in her nature. When you come in the house and say "As Salaam Alaikum" and I mean "As Salaam Alaikum" on you.
Yeah. Hold up. "As Salaam Alaikum baby". She look in your face and see a penis and pair of balls hanging under. That's right. I'm telling you plainly. That's what that woman see in you. So, when you stand up and say, "Hey baby, do so and so and so." "Wait a minute, nigga. Don't talk to me like that. After all, I'm as grown as you. I'm a woman. I'm a grown up. Don't tell me what to do like I'm some damn kid. You ain't nothing but a dick and a set of balls."
That's right. That's what she's telling you. Maybe she won't tell you out like that but that's what's working inside of her. "Who you talking too? I don't see nothing in your face but a peter and a pair of testes." And will go behind your back when you really hurt her and she'll tell a girlfriend. "The nigga ain't nothing. That nigga'll lick my very crack." I'm telling you what I know women say. I've heard them say it. "Nigga'll lick off my crack." Now let me tell you something. You don't have to actually put your head down there for them to start treating you like that. See, some of us never put our head down there but we begin to show enough weakness for that that it make them think... And in reality our head is down there.
Anytime you can't make decisions that you know are right, fearing that this woman ain't going to give me none tonight, you'll put your head down there. Your mind has become your sex organ. Your sex organ has taken over the kingdom of your head. So anytime that you can't make proper and right decisions in your home for fear that that woman ain't going to sleep with me tonight, you have given up your manhood. You have given up your life. You have killed yourself and become nothing but a sex organ.
That's right. It ain't your fault, it's the devil's fault. It's that group of conspirators faults that put these crazy ideas into our life about sex and about our own human makeup. It's their fault. But once you get clear understanding, you supposed to rise up above that, man. I don't think you can find a husband in Chicago any more agreeable than I am with my wife. I got a wife, man... I hope it don't get out but I got a wife that'll test you, man. I'm telling you, she'll test you. She'll test you in every way and if you ain't excellent, I mean excellent, she'll have you running right out the door, right off the planet if you can find a way off.
I'm telling you. Now she got her beautiful side too, sweet and beautiful side, but she got a side that just has to test strength. Whenever she finds strength in me, she got to test it and she never give up. Keep picking and picking and picking and picking. And I try to satisfy her as much as possible. How much is that? As much as my guidance to me will permit. G-d has given me guidance. He told me that there are certain things that I can't do if I'm going to please him. I'm not going to do those things to please no woman.
So, when I can't please her, I can't please her. She get upset. Sometimes she say, "That ain't Allah. You use Allah as an excuse." Well I can't prove it to her. I can't prove it to her. That's what she see, that's what she believes. So, I can't prove to this woman that, "Woman, I am doing this for Allah." "No, that's just you. You don't have to do that. Holy Qur'an don't say you have to do that." But the Holy Qur'an sets the guidelines, establish the principle. And if I see there's a principle of pride in this area, I have to obey that principle. This woman, she hasn't studied the Holy Qur'an like me. So she say, "Oh, that's just your decision. Holy Qur'an, I've read it. It don't say that." But you haven't studied it like I've studied it. You don't know it like I know it.
So, I know that it says I shouldn't do this in principle, whether it says that in actual language or not. So, she says, "Allah? You just using Allah as an excuse. You don't want to do this for me." That's it. She'll go until the sun turns into a snowflake and fall on my head. Yes, let me tell you. Now she can try all she wants but I repeat: She won't change me until the sun turns to a snowflake and fall out on my head or until G-d let go His control on me. But as long as I'm obedient and earn G-d's control over my life... See G-d ain't going to control our life unless we want it 100%.
We have to want it 100%. He's not going to control our life if we are half made up, half our mind is made up. We still want to do this but we asking G-d to change this but the inclination is still there. So, look, the inclination will always be in the flesh and in all these things. But once the will is determined, completely made up, I want G-d's way on me. I want to follow His way. I want His control over every atom in my being, over every thought.
Once you come to that position and you ask for it, most likely you'll get it. And G-d will be the control in your life. Now, when He becomes that control in your life, He's not going to let you go until you change your will. As long as you keep that will, He ain't going to let you go. So, I know that's the will I have. He ain't going to let me go until I give up this will and I don't believe I'll give up this will, ever, because I know too much about it now and had it too long.
Maybe I would've given it up about 10 years ago but no, no, not now. You should be the same way. Don't make a lot of hell in your house. Don't jump up and curse, spit all over the place, screaming and carrying on, kick your furniture all over and beat up the little children. Go and slap the wife down, beat her all up. Don't do that. Be intelligent. Be well-disciplined. Do what you got to do for Allah's sake. Every time anger start rising in you, remember. Say, "Wallace." Now your name's something else. Say, "Wallace. I made this choice or this decision and I'm telling this woman this to please Allah." Don't say it to her. Say it in your own mind. "I'm telling this woman this to please Allah and she's rejecting it but she's not rejecting me.
She's rejecting Allah. And my duty is only to tell her what Allah is moving in me. Okay? All right. So she's rising up against you, but actually, it's not you. You have given yourself, you ain't even there no more. You stepped out of that position. You put Allah there. Right?
All right, when you found out what Allah wanted, you gave up to Allah, so you ain't there. Allah is there. So, if the woman attacks you, she ain't attacking you, she's attacking what Allah, and she's attacking Allah. You understand? In the form of His guidance, she's attacking Him.
So don't you be upset, think you have to win an argument with her. You don't have to win no argument with that woman. Just tell her in a soft voice, say, "Baby, baby, I ain't going to let you bring no whiskey in here," or, "Baby, I ain't going to let you bring no pork in here," or, "Baby, I ain't going to let your friends come in here and eat pork in my house. This is a Muslim house." You understand?
Or, "Baby, I ain't going to let you go out with those whores." If you know a woman is a filthy, no-good scoundrel, if it's known, I'm not talking about what you suspect. But if you know others know, that this woman is a whore or a prostitute or an undesirable woman, tell your wife, "Well, I can have my friends. I ain't doing it." Tell her "Woman, "I'm not going to have it. Allah is against that." "Where the Holy Qur'an say that I can't have a woman, a street woman, as my friend, as long as I ain't doing wrong?" Say, "In principle, the Holy Qur'an says you should be trying to convert her to Islam and bringing her to the Mosque. If you go with her to the places where she go, or go sit up in some room and talk with her, and ain't talking about Islam trying to bring her to the Mosque, you are out of order."
"So, if you are going to have undesirable women as your buddies, baby, I want you to know that you are doing it against me, and if it keeps up, our relationship is going to go to pot." Tell her, tell her. Say, "You have to make your choice between the filthy undesirable company that I see you taking up with or me." And be a man. Don't say it and then ask Allah to defend it. You're trying to obey Allah, right? Okay, so when that woman tests you don't say, "Allah. Oh, Allah, help me." Allah already helped you. Allah helped you when He showed you the way, the light.
Now you show Allah that you can help yourself. And if that woman say, "Well, if that's what you say, then you just have to get a divorce, you have to leave." Say, "Well, we are separated right now." Yeah. Say, "I don't know what you think of me internally or me externally, but you ain't getting nothing else from me externally, and all you going to get from me internally is some more guidance from Allah." That's right. That's how I handle the situation.
Say, "Externally, you're through, baby, or until you come around." They talk about putting me on the punishment list for four or five days. No, you don't punish me. I put her on the punishment list. I tell her, "Look, go lay by yourself." Right? She said, "Well, this is my bed." "Well, you can come in here but you ain't getting nothing."
And I'll tell you something else; this old world has made you think that the woman got all the sex to give you, and you ain't got no sex to give her. If you stop trying to hit it when you're supposed to be sleeping and start hitting it when you're resting, you'll have something to give her as much as she got something to give you. That's right. And let her know you got something to give her if she start acting like that.
If she tell you, "Oh well, I don't want you touching me then," say, "Well, we're both going to be doing without, baby." That's right. Tell her. Say, "Well, we're both going to be doing without, and since that's your attitude. How long baby?" If she say, "Well, I don't want you touching me tonight." "Well, nothing tomorrow night either." And if she say, "For this week," say, "For next week either." That's right. You got to be a man. "Oh brother, what am I'm going to do?" Look here, I'd rather grease my hands and go to work double-handed. Look, listen.
Wait, wait, wait a minute. I'm serious. Look, I'm as serious as I ever been. I'm not joking. Believe me, I'm as serious as I've ever been. I'm not joking. "Oh, that's beneath me to do something like that, Chief Imam." How much more is it beneath you to lower your mind and your whole self, give up your manhood to a woman that won't be a decent wife to you? How much more will you lower yourself?
Don't you know the sin is much less. Go on and masturbate. And thank G-d that you got two hands. Hold up, hold up. Listen, listen. Thank Allah that you got two hands and a mind that can imagine better things than what she got. Or tools that you can use to rescue you from a woman when she's trying to make a slave or a sex dummy out of you. That's right. She may have hanging titties, a rolling belly, or bony ribs, but you can imagine the fattest titties in the world.
Brothers, I'm serious. You may think that I'm being loose or vulgar with you tonight. I'm not being loose and vulgar with you tonight. I'm trying to free you so you can get your manhood back in your own hands. If you show that woman that your relationship with her is more important for you, a relationship of human being to human being, rather than flesh to flesh, that woman will start respecting you, brother. And if you have to masturbate to do that, I say, masturbate.
Don't go out and get another woman. All you're going to do then is destroy the peace in your home and make it worse. Pretty soon you've lost your family, lost your children. You can't see your children. Children in one place, you another, another man raising your children or a woman raising them or neglecting your children. You see? So why go through all that trouble? You don't have to go out and look for another woman. You can't find one that's pretty as that, when you close your eyes and imagine. That's right. They haven't made a woman prettier than the one you can imagine.
But isn't that unnatural? Yes, it's unnatural when you want to make a baby. Hold up, hold up, hold up. If I want to make a baby, that's unnatural. Ain't no baby going to be made that way. But if I just want to relieve myself, that's natural. Yes. So, you have to understand, you have understand the difference between having babies and relieving yourself.
Now if this woman's denying you and you're hurt because you can't have a baby, "Baby, I want to have a baby." If that's what's moving you, then you keep on trying to beg and work with her so she can have a baby. But if that ain't moving you, and you know that ain't moving you, go on and do the natural thing and naturally relieve yourself.
Look, can you stop yourself from having a wet dream? Is that unnatural because you had a wet dream last night? You don't even have to dream and have a wet dream. Let me explain it to you. Sometimes we see ourselves in the act. That's a wet dream. Sometimes you don't have no dream, or you don't see nothing, and you wake up and it has happened. Sometimes you use the washroom and it happens. You're just urinating, and some come out with the urine, and sometimes there's a sensation that comes with it too, even in the urine, right? Okay, so how come it's unnatural? Nothing unnatural about that. Nothing unnatural about it. Don't be ashamed.
Now Jesus says that he who commits adultery in his mind has committed adultery. So, I'll warn you against imagining my wife while you're doing that. Don't get no image of my wife now, or my daughter, somebody that you ain't married to. If you can't imagine a new creature, you better put your mind on your wife, I don't care how bad she looks.
But you know got a lot to work with. You can look over there and pick up your two fat busts, a set of busts, and you can look way over there on the other side of the world and get you some Chinese legs, then go over to Africa and get you an African buttocks. Go to Turkey and get you a Turkish stomach, right? Just go out all over the world and pick your feet up, put it all together and you got a woman that belongs to you. She ain't nobody's wife.
Now I'm not going to hold you anymore now. I'm going finish on this note: Keep peace in the house. Be intelligent. Don't let yourself go into a rage. I don't care. I know most of us, we're in the habit of just arguing because we can't hit that woman. So, we argue and curse, we get too mad. We just have to argue and curse and let off the steam.
But don't do that. Talk quietly to her and remember that this ain't no petty thing between me and her. This thing is between me and my G-d. You understand? And my G-d don't want me raging and going into no fits. So, I tell this woman quietly and intelligently what is right. If she don't want it, I'm not going keep exchanging words with her. That's it.
If she says, "Well, what about last year?" She bring up something to upset you, she going to bring up something to get you into an argument, even though you don't want to get into one. "Well, what about last year, when you did such and such and such," or, "What about what you said to so-and-so-and-so, nigger? And what about the thing that you did that I ain't never did, I've forgiven you for that, so-and-so." And just last week you wasn't S-H-I-T, man. Now all of a sudden, you holy-holy this and you're going to obey Allah."
Okay, hold up, hold up. "Just last week, you were crying to me for it. I'll see how long this lasts, nigger. I'll see how long this lasts." Okay, she will say things like this to pull you out, to make you get off your intelligent position and start arguing with her. Don't do it. Don't do it. Listen to all the stuff she bring up. That ain't what you are all about. That ain't what you're interested in.
The point of the present is that I'm not going to do such-and-such, or I'm not going to stand for such-and-such. Is that right? Whatever she say off the subject or of the past or somewhere else, don't answer it. Don't respond to it, no matter how much it bothers you, because she's going to be searching for your weak spots. Don't respond to it.
Remember this: you are trying to obey Allah and you don't want to respond to things off the subject, all right? Do that and what you'll do is cut down arguments in your house. You'll cut down these violent tendencies, violent confrontations in your house and, eventually, you'll begin to see a natural kind of mind come into the house. The normal condition of mind will start coming into the house. It's going to take time. But if you're going to rage all the time, you'll always be out of order. Your nature's always out of order. Your mind is always upset. Get the place in order.
Don't go in the house tonight and start looking at everything that's out order and try to correct everything tonight. In fact, whatever you see tonight that you saw last night, don't say nothing about it. All right? But if you see something new crop up, if she's carrying this further, then stand up. She going to expect for you to say something, right? You understand what I mean? It ain't going to stay the same. It continues to grow.
Don't bother her about what's wrong now. Wait till she come up with another wrong, a new wrong. Say, "Look, that's not right, and as a Muslim, I can't accept it." She's going to start flying up. "You don't have to accept it. So-and-so-and-so." "Well, I'm going to do so-and-so-and-so." "Why?" If she asks why, just tell her. Say, "It's because I know it's not right for me as a Muslim." And if she says, "Well, I don't believe, I never heard nothing like that." You say, "Well, you go and ask the Chief Imam, and if he say I'm wrong, then I'll come back to you and talk again. But until then, that's it." All right? Okay.
Now she's going to test you and everything, but don't get involved. Don't answer, don't answer. That's it and that's all. Say, "If you want to talk about something else, baby, I'm ready to talk. But if you want to talk about what you did, what I did, what the problems we have, I'm serious. I ain't interested in those problems. I was just interested in this one tonight." All right?
"You always have been a ticking so-and-so and-so-and-so. You can't even bother with me. You can't even defend the position you just took." Say, "Baby, Peace be unto you." Say, "As-Salamu Alaykum, sweetheart." That's right. And go on the bed and try to go to sleep. If she won't let you go to sleep, get your hat and coat, go outside, come back tomorrow. If she still want to fuss, go back again. Come back and wait until that woman can live with you without fussing and shouting in your face.
I'm telling you how to do this thing. Do it this way, you'll get yourself together. The Holy Qur'an says, and I'm going to conclude it with this, that, "When your wives are disobeying Islamic instructions," it says that "Dharaba Unha Kalida." Which is translated into English, "Strike them or beat them a little or lightly."
All right, let me tell you something, the Holy Qur'an also says that, "If you have problems in your relationship with your wife, deny them the right to your bed until they show signs that they're coming around." All right? Now listen to this, if the Holy Qur'an meant for me to take my belt or my hand or a stick and physically whip my wife, don't you know the Holy Qur'an wouldn't tell me to deny that woman my bed?
You say, "Well, both of them can be used. You have to know which one to apply. Different kind of situations, different things." No. "Dharaba", striking them lightly or a little bit was permitted in those days. But the guidance of the Holy Qur'an let us know that Allah doesn't want us to stay on this primitive kind of relationship with our wife. The Holy Qur'an want us to learn how to handle these situations in a more dignified way.
And the best way is just to separate physically from her, because that's the problem. If you all can't agree on something sensible and right, it's because that woman has started to get her relationship with you confused. She thinks that all this, the whole relationship ain't nothing but sex. You see? All right, so if you separate from her, in time, you'll show her that this relationship ain't just sex. You understand? That I can do without this woman. I want you for more than that. All right?
So, if we "Daraba hun", Daraba has a broad application. Daraba also can mean in a figurative sense. You can whip somebody with your tongue. They call it giving them a tongue lashing, by telling them the fact, the truth, that drives home to that conscience. You can give them worse whipping with your tongue than you can with a stick or your hand, right?
Okay, so Daraba hun doesn't just mean with your hand or with a stick, brother. There's more advanced ways to whip a woman. And the best way to whip a woman is just tell her the truth. Tell her the truth. You know if you've been no good, you know if you haven't lived up to par, if you've failed her as a husband and failed the children as a father. If you have, tell her the truth. Say, "I've done this, baby, I know it. I know I failed. But look, I don't want to keep failing. I want to be a man, and I'm going to be a man." Okay? All right.
So, when you tell her this, she's going to hear truth. She's going to respect the truth, and the truth is going to go home to the heart of her conscience. She's going to begin responding as she should. If you have done good, don't tell her and say, "Look, I bought you a mink coat on your birthday. I bought you a diamond ring and got married." Don't tell her that. That ain't nothing. She knows that.
Look, a woman, she don't forget the good. Seems that she remember only the bad and forget the good, but she doesn't. She remembers it. It's back in her mind. Don't bring it up by going directly to it. Bring it up this way. Say, "Well baby, I realize that I could have been better to you." See? Don't say, "I've done this. I've done that." Say, "I realize that I could be better to you or I could have been better to you, but I don't think that you have any right to disrespect me or to refuse to accept good advice when I give it to you, and especially when it is Muslim Islamic advice."
So that's it. That's it. Now the good is going to come to her mind when you said, "I know that I could have been better," it's going to hit her harder than if you had named everything you did. She'll say, "What's the nigger mean he could have been better? He's the best nigger on Earth."
So, brothers, stop hitting your wives. I came out here to make two main points tonight, other than to teach you about yourself. One was to tell you don't use anything but the sex organ for sex. And believe me, the sex organ can really do wonders. That's right.
Well, I shouldn't be on this phone with this though. I just saw I'm on the hookup. I hope it's private. I hope it's private. I hope this is a private hookup. I hope ain't nobody listening but us menfolk, hope there ain't no... What do you call it? What do you call those people? Operators, I hope there are no operators on the line.
But look, brothers, you can take your sex organ in your hand and you can do all the maneuvers with that, that your finger can do, that your tongue can do. I'm telling you, you can take that in your hand and you can play and play and play. And if you play in the right spaces, in the right places and spaces with your sex organ, with your sex organ, she's going to come around. That's right. She's going to come around.
And I'll tell you another thing that this old crazy and artificial mentality has done to us, it has made us restrain ourselves in the sex. When a man is having sex, you don't want to be making no calculated movements, timing everything, grind, grind. You don't need to making no -- going through all this art. Don't go through all that cool stuff. Actually, you know what the right spots are that make her feel good. Put it there and play around a little bit, not with your mouth, not with your hand. Play around with your penis. Play the penis around in those spots, and when you get ready to go in, don't go in now like some old crazy youngster that was told you're supposed to do left, right.
You go in. This is a flesh, this is a flesh thing. This is nothing but flesh-and-flesh. You understand? You go in good like flesh, with heat. All right? And if you feel panting, pant a little bit. Hold up, wait a minute, wait a minute. Whatever you feel like saying, if you feel like saying, "Oh," say, "Oh."
Look, the other way was unnatural. I'm telling you the natural way. Don't be saying, "Sweetheart, is this all right?" You done killed everything. She don't want to hear no voice like that. You're here to do an animal thing. This is the beginning of life, not the first stage or second stage or the completion of life. You're at the beginning of life, you're making life, so you act like flesh. "Arggg, Arggg, Ohhhhh"
Look, if you think you're weak, start there even before you get started. Say, "Oh, I can't stand it, oh, I can't, oh." All right. So, you take her mind off her shyness, and off what you were thinking about. She can't get into this mood, for looking at you, "Is this all right? Is it bothering his conscience?" But let her know, "No, this ain't bothering my conscience. This is natural."
All right, let's go home and be men. Let's be intelligent. Let's not shock this thing tonight. Let's gradually bring things into order. As-Salamu Alaykum.


