01/18/1975
IWDM Study Library
FOI Class NYC
Pt. 2

By Imam W. Deen Mohammed
All right, let me just forget about that and let's go back a little bit. You see, brothers, the Honorable Elijah Muhammad says and if he hadn't given us this knowledge, if he hadn't lived to give us this knowledge, I don't know what we would have done. You know 1960 brought home some bad times.
Some times that made our blood boil, made us grow tiger teeth and we are not like that. We are loving people, aren't we brother? You know that, we are loving people. We do not like to grow tiger teeth but time came that made us grow tiger teeth. Time came that made us so sad at heart, made us feel so empty and lost for understanding and explanation. A time of grief seeing loved ones thrown away from us by forces that we couldn't understand.
A man that we once called minister Malcolm, who's resting now, was thrown out from among us by forces that most of us were unable to understand. Behind that was a similar force threw me out and a force related to those forces caused the Honorable Elijah Muhammad to be separated physically from his youngest son Akbar Muhammad. And you know the repercussions, I don't have to go through it, but that was a terrible time for us, wasn’t it?
Three hundred years walking around without decent clothes and without soap and water, without the opportunity to clean and make ourselves presentable for each other. Three hundred years of that, that was a terrible time too, wasn't it? Three hundred years of being burdened with a big question mark, "Why am I treated like this? How did I get here? Why was I brought here? What I'm I doing here and what are these people doing with me and what are they going to do with me in the future?" That was a terrible time too, wasn't it?
Think, brother, was all that time a waste? No, no, no. They say, "How can you see the mountain top of joy and ecstasy before you've seen the valley of suffering and misery?" You can't see it. You may suffer a while, but why would our G-d tell us to do that? Can't we come into this joy and into this ecstasy without that? Allah is the best knower. Feet operate well under legs. Legs operate well under the trunk of the man and the trunk of the man operates well under the head of the man. The Bible give something like this, “should the feet say to the head? You have wrongly guided me.”
It’s not the place of the feet to guide the head. The head guides the body. The feet's natural job is to follow the dictates of the head. Is that right? You might say, "Well, this sounds like Christianity, telling me not question G-d." Oh, there is a big difference, brother. In Christianity, they form you into an emotional superstitious being, who responds to suffering and enjoyment but does not respond to wisdom, knowledge, and understanding. In this Nation of Islam, you are formed to respond to wisdom, knowledge and understanding and you are created, and I'm saying created brother, and I'm going to go back to that, and you are created to get your joy from the manifestation to you of wisdom, knowledge, and understanding.
When you see us jumping up or when you see us coming alive, it's because we have seen light of proof and understanding. And that light has shown us where and when and why we should laugh and rejoice. That's not the life of Christian, brother. That's the life of Muslim and a new Muslim. That's Islam and New Islam. So, don't come to us with baby excuses. Don't try to pull us back into the dark. We're not going to let your weakness be a power to draw us behind you into doubt and suspicion and superstition.
Because we know the bright light of the sun has appeared, and it has removed darkness from east to west, north to south. In fact, the earth can't even shadow us anymore. Night comes, but we see just as though it was noonday. We disregard that thing they call darkness. We know it's nothing but a shadow of an earth that we have come up out of, and now stand upon and master it.

Let's see now, what do we have here? We have a man coming, and another man seeing in that man, the coming of G-d. We have thousands of people who witnessed the physical presence of that man, just like the Honorable Elijah Muhammad did, but they didn't see G-d coming in that man. Go back and read the old writings, the old history of the coming of master WD Fard and his teaching in Detroit, Michigan. Listen to what those people say that saw him and met him.
They say they met a professor. They say they met a prophet. They say they met a teacher. The Honorable Elijah Muhammad say, "I met G-d." He was able to see something that they weren't able to see. All right now, I'm going to something here that shouldn't cause you any problem. When you read the Bible-- Now, I know, look, you might get tired, but the time is going. The time is going slow for us. It's still early. It's still early.
This Bible says that the sun stood still for Joshua, didn't it? Yes, sir. Now, we don't believe in any spooks.

We know that ball of fire did not stand still for Joshua and no other Oshua. We know that. What does it mean? It means that because of the divine power being with Joshua, time worked in Joshua's favor, and worked against his enemy. For them, the time was moving on, but for Joshua, the time was standing still, giving him plenty of time to get his plan together and execute it.

All praise is due to Allah. Brother Minister, you know, me and this Brother here, Brother Minister Farrakhan, we're not new friends, we're old friends. We're old friends, and we have had some wonderful chats together. We know how to break bread together, don't we? All right. All praise is due to Allah. You know, there's another lesson in that, and I have to bring it out because it's very important too.
The sun in Scripture is a symbol of the light of Allah which is supreme wisdom. Supreme wisdom means that key knowledge that unlocks the ordinary knowledge. It enables us to understand why the knowledge exists as it is. The sun is a symbol of that knowledge, and it's standing still, meaning it's stood still for him, meaning that knowledge comes up and it keeps moving, and you have to follow it and chase it.
You chase it so far and it goes down on you, and darkness covers you. You have to wait until the proper time, right, Brother Minister? You have to wait for the proper time for that knowledge to come up on the horizon again and light your mind up again. But for a divine man, that sun stands still so he can study it and watch it all of his day.

All praise is due to Allah.
Now, brother, all praise is due to Allah. When I say Allah, I'm not talking about something far away. I'm not talking about some Arab sitting somewhere with a turban on, and a golden robe, and some white slippers holding a staff or something, waiting for the proper time for us to tell him, "Your kingdom is prepared, come sit on the throne." No, I'm talking about an Allah who's on the throne all the time, and who's no farther away from us than the bat of our eyes.
In fact, much closer than that, much closer than that. Now, look, if you should see me rise off this floor here, and float in the air, don't just go out of your mind because I feel like I'm floating now.
So, don't go out of your mind. I don't think I'm going to get up off this floor. My nature is to feel comfortable with my feet on the floor. So, if float and rise up off this floor in won’t be with my will power. It will be against my will power. But, caught up in this power that’s working in me now that seem to be giving me an independent gravity. There is a possibility that I might be lifted off this floor. So, if it happens don’t get afraid. It’s a power that belongs to you and loves you. So, don’t be afraid of it. Its for you. Its yours. 
Now, let me get back to it now. We have here now something being created. We know that as the Honorable Elijah Muhammad taught us beautifully one Saviours’ Day. He said, “all life comes up out of the earth. We ourselves grow up out of the earth.” So, the Honorable Elijah Muhammad can’t be blamed for us thinking something wrong. He has given us clear teachings. He said, “we all come up out of the earth.” But he also said that, “the original man, that first one was existing as a unit of living force in the dark empty space.” A space that is empty because of the limitation of our knowledge and understanding of reality. But it was just as filled then as it is now. But on the level of our knowledge of reality it was empty dark space. And that unit of living force which is a unity too. The honorable Elijah Muhammad says, “that on its own power it manifests the present of physical world.” Now the Holy Qur’an tells us that this happened in six periods of time. The Bible says six days. But the Bible says a day with the Lord is as a thousand year. Which is saying the same thing that the Qur’an is saying that these days stand for long periods of time. I love talking to you all. You know myself and brother Minister we are of the same spirit. What I mean by that is this; our food is divine food. I look healthy and fat to you, but its not because this is my favorite food. I love good food now. But my favorite food is this that we are getting right now. And when I’m getting this food, I don’t think of eating the other food. This can last for 24 hours. It can last for 72 hours. It can last for a solid week. And I guarantee you that I won’t ask for food unless somebody mention it. That’s right. Because this is our food. Not just my food and brother minister food. We are just more into this than you. You can’t afford to get into it as much as we can. You won’t be doing yourself and your nation justice if you got into it as much as bro Minister and I get into it. That’s why we are free and are made to get into it this deep. So, that you don’t have to have to worry about the meal being prepared. So, we all eat.
You know the Bible say, “thou shall not live by bread alone.” That’s in Deuteronomy. And then Jesus came up and repeated it. He said, “Haven’t you heard where it is written, thou shall not live by bread alone?” What would should you live by? Didn’t Jesus say, “but by ever word that preceded from the mouth of G-d.” Every word. That covers a lot. A word is a unit of communication. The Bible communicates to us divine truth. The Holy Quran communicates to us divine truth. And everything of the natural creation before our eyes communicate to us of divine truth. So, we have a whole world of bread. There is more bread in existence than there is anything else. So, there is no reason for us to starve, is there? He made more bread than anything else brother. I look at this clock here ticking and I see bread. It says 11:43 and I see a lot of bread in 11:43. All right let’s get off that because I don’t want you to think of time to much. I want you to think about what we are doing and saying here. Because we got a longs way to go. And our destination is a glorious destination. 
The honorable Elijah Muhammad said to me. I went to him all the way out where he is. Some of you know where he is, maybe some of you don’t. I can’t tell you where he is. You have to get it from here. But I went all the way where he is, before going to him I talked to him. I said, “I like to see you. It’s been a long time.” He said, “yeah!” I said, “yes sir.” He said, “How is your family?” 
I said, “They are doing fine. If there is nothing more, I’m coming out I’ll see you tomorrow morning.” He said, “Come on son!” Now the believers know what that means to hear the boss say, “come on.” He said,” Come on son.” Oh yeah, he calls me son. Why shouldn’t he call me son? 
Beautiful sister Clara Muhammad wasn’t a liar. She said, “This is your son.” The honorable Elijah Muhammad said. “this is my son.” May the peace and blessing of Allah be upon him. Believe it or not I’m on this subject and I’m not getting off of it one dot. I’ve never had a subject that stick in mine mind like this one. I just can’t forget it. I can’t get off the subject. I go away from a line of it and say, “well if I don’t come back to it, it will be alright.” And I finish and go right back to it and start with the very letter from where I stopped. So, that mean that Allah what me to talk to you today. Well you will say, “What about the honorable Elijah Muhammad? What about the messenger does he want you to talk with us today?” Well I’ll let you be the judge. I was getting ready to go out to the Temple to teach and I said, “Dear father, if it’s alright I’m going to leave know.” He said, “Are you getting ready to go out to the temple?” I said, “Yes sir! I’m scheduled to talk today.” He said, “Son, go everywhere and anywhere you go preach this gospel.” That’s good enough for me. Now I was going to do it anyway. The only way he could have stopped me was to use physical force. Because I got all the witness I need from spiritual force. So, he would have to stop me by letting me know physically. No revelation would work. Because revelation was already coming. So, the only way he would have to tell me, “WALLACE STOP!” I would have to hear the physical voice. The lips have to move. But he didn’t do that, you see? 
I came to the Honorable Elijah Muhammad and I sit at the dinner table. See, things are not all like we think they should be brothers. We think that everything is supposed to be a certain way that’s the limit of our knowledge. And I’m not criticizing the limits of your knowledge. We all have limitations. But yes, I’m going to say it. I have to say it. Not because I love to say it. I have to say it. I love to say it if its rightly received. But I hate to say it if it causes one single brother a problem. But I have to say it. In the birth of the original man into what we call the physical creation. And then another birth of the original man out of the physical creation tells us something. The honorable Elijah Muhammad teaches us beautifully that we were brought out of triple darkness. Think about that; triple darkness. So, the first darkness we came out of it was darkness. The second darkness we came out of it was darkness. Now I’m going to hit one of these darkness’. And brother Minister you help me tell the brothers, “keep quiet.” What I mean by that, don’t just go out in the street preaching. Wait until minister Farrakhan preach. Then when you hear him preach you can follow him in what he preaches. One of those darkness’ is the material or physical creation. We come up out of it. Every man, every woman, every child male and female are born out of this womb of darkness with no knowledge of the womb. They come here and the head is heavy. The human being has big head in proportion with its body. Bigger than the other creatures. That head has to rest for months. Sometimes it takes two or three months just to pull the head off the pillow.
This is good for you. Don’t think we don’t know how to clean your mind, how to take death out of your mind and put life in the place of death. How to take the band of slavery off your mind. How to take the bands of ignorance off your mind. Brother, we know how to take the bands of inferiority off your mind. When I say “we” I’m talking about Allah. We know how to do this. And you can’t recognize the supreme wisdom and skill of the operator. Because your knowledge of that particular operation or field of study or work is above you. But you have faith in doctor Elijah Muhammad and have faith in his trained physician. And just sit down and relax brother we are not going to cripple you. We are going to give you whole healthy legs again. We are going to replace what had been taken away. We are going to repair the damage. We are going to turn the light on in your mental life. And you will be able to do your work at home better. You will be able to do your work on the job better. You will be able to do your work in the schools better. You will be able to do your work as a member in the Nation of Islam better. You will be able to breath, and walk, and think, and smile, and laugh and everything better if you would just have faith. Remember Jesus couldn’t do anything unless the people had faith. He had to first have the faith of the people. Then with their faith he healed them. And when he healed them, he said, “Go your way, your faith has healed you.” Telling them that if you didn’t have faith you wouldn’t have the price to pay for this blessing of healing. But if you have faith you have the price. And if you pay it you are going to get the blessing. Alright, I don’t want to spook you up. But you don’t have any mental problem, you don’t have any mental handicaps, you don’t have any spiritual problems or spiritual handicaps or moral problems or moral handicaps that’s too much for us to come into and change it. And make you whole, healthy, and happy again. Believe it or not. 
Alright, let’s go back now. The honorable Elijah Muhammad he was sitting down at the table and he was listening to one of the tapes. And being his son and a son that has been accused, falsely accused. I haven’t been all innocent. I’ve caught colds, I’ve been seen in the street wearing dirty clothes. I’ve been seen in the street with shabby clothes. I’ve been seen in the company of sinners. But so was Jesus. Those that took it upon themselves the power to judge me when I was doing these things and had no power to judge my own actions. I was waiting for the answer come to show me why was I going through this? With my superior understanding of the teachings I wasn’t judging and I was the one who was the best witness of what I was doing. But those who had less knowledge and who could not see into my heart and into my mind, they judged me. They said, “He was a hypocrite. He likes the orthodox Muslim more than he like us.” What kind of lies. I didn’t answer. I didn’t even bother to answer. Because I knew that time will bring out the truth. And I knew that Allah wouldn’t going to let me die before seeing the truth come out. Because it would have been a terrible injury to me. And I didn’t deserve that kind of injury. I knew I would live to see the day when the truth would come out. “Oh, he’s following the orthodox Muslim. He’s teaching that orthodox Islam.” I don’t know of anything called orthodox Islam. That’s strange to me. You would have to teach me what is orthodox Islam. I don’t know what it is. I never heard of it. I only heard of the word. But I haven’t seen what it is. What is orthodox Islam? I know what new Islam is and I know what old Islam is. But I don’t know what orthodox Islam is. That’s a Christian term. That’s a white world expression, orthodox Islam. All I know is old Islam and New Islam. Now the white man put his own word on there. Meaning that orthodox and new are in opposition with each other. 
Is old knowledge that is brought into new form in opposition to old knowledge? Some might say yes sometimes. But you are wrong. It’s only old interpretations, weak interpretations by virtue of the absent of new knowledge the interpretations are week. So, weak interpretations of old knowledge are in opposition to new knowledge. But correct interpretations of old knowledge are new knowledge. 

We don’t have any strange Islam. We have a new fresh up to date interpretation of old Islam. And this new fresh up to date interpretation is called New Islam. When we say new, we don’t mean another one. We mean one that is made so fresh again, so attractive to the present-day life that when we look at, we see a new garment. He says, “Oh man, you wearing a new suit there?” The man says, “No, this is the same old suit. What I did was, I broke it down into threads again. And I weaved suit all over.” He says, “Man why did you go through all that trouble with that old garment?” Say, “I discovered that this old garment is better than anything they could put out new. I discovered that this old garment just doesn’t rot. It doesn’t grow weak. And all it need was broken down and resewn again. And it’s a new fresh garment.” That’s what we have. We have Islam but we don’t have another religion. So, when they accuse me of teaching orthodox Islam. You know what I know from them? That they are still in the dark. That they are not living in the 1975. That’s what I know. 
“Orthodox Islam”, that’s a shame. 
It’s a shame that we let ideas like this just take us and sweep us away. Turn us against our brother. For no reason but a selfish reason. Can’t I talk like this? Alright thank you. They see me in the street and they say, “Yeah he’s an orthodox Muslim. I saw him with a beard.” He had a beer. And a 1/5 of gin. And some money on a horse. And a sister that belong to another brother. But he saw me with a beard and said, “Throw him out.” But he didn’t know I didn’t have the 1/5. I didn’t have the other brother sister. I wasn’t putting any money on a horse. I was living by the book of Islam. But I was just wearing a beard. Now when the master comes and he say, “What’s your charges against brother Wallace?” “Well he had a beard. He was talking to Arabs.” “What was he saying to those Arabs?” “I don’t know but he was talking to them.” He said, “What else you got against him?” Say, “Well, he wasn’t walking and associating with the members of the Temple. We saw him out in the street.” “Well what did you see him going? Did you see him drinking?” No. “Did you ever see him smoke?” No. “Did you ever catch him lying?” No. “Did you ever catch him stealing?” No. “Did you ever catch him eating pork?” No. “Did you ever catch him breaking any of these laws that we have established in the Nation of Islam other than wearing that beard, and going untidy in the streets?” No. “And talking to Arabs and you don’t know what he was saying?” No, I don’t have nothing else against him. “Now how many of these are you guilty of?”
The judge doesn’t have to come, he is among us. All praise is due to Allah. So, my father listening to the tape he said, “I’m happy over my son. This is what me and my wife, we knew this would come. We prayed for this.” He looked at them and said, “I’m proud of my son.” And then he looked at me and he said, “in whom I’m well pleased.” Now the honorable Elijah Muhammad know me well enough to know that I don’t need flattery. I don’t need flattery and I don’t require it. He didn’t have to give that to me. But he was letting me know that, “you are here for a divine purpose. Your life is a divine life. You can’t escape it just like I couldn’t escape it. Even if you want to walk away from it, you can’t son.” That’s what he was telling me. By giving me the words of the Book to David. The words came, “This is my beloved son in whom I’m well pleased.” So, he gave those words letting me know that you son are part of a divine thing and its no escape for it. He told me, “together son we can do the whole job.” Did he say that brother Secretary? He said, “Together son, we can take care of the whole thing.” Now if he respects me and honor me enough to tell me to come in son and be my partner. Do you think anything short of a bullet in my head will stop me? No. Nothing short of physical death will stop me. And nobody is going to stop but a devil. And I don’t think a devil could stop me. I know my brothers and sisters is not going to stop me. 



