11/27/1977
IWDM Study Library
RETURN FROM HAJJ
(Parts 1-?)
By Imam W. Deen Mohammed

Speaker 1: We are especially happy to be because, just three days ago we returned from Hajj or Pilgrimage, and we're especially happy and we welcome him back home. I'm sure you feel the same as I do about him and about all of the others who went with him on Hajj. He means so much to us. all praise is due to Allah. because, he is The Mujaddid. The world of Islam is recognizing that more and more.
Dear leader, whenever you choose to come out sir, we are ready for you sir, yes sir. Takbir , and whenever we say takbir that just merely, you know a glorification when we say Allahu Akbar this is merely a glorification to Allah the one G-D. Takbir, [Arabic Language]. Takbir,  Takbir, , all praise is due to Allah brothers and sisters, The Mujadid. Think of it, The Mujadid, Shaykh Imam, honorable Wallace D Muhammad, brothers and sisters it is a pleasure. All praise is due to Allah.
[applause].
Imam W. Deen Mohammed: Dear beloved Muslims, brothers and sisters, assalamu alaikum. All praise is due to Allah, the Lord, Sustainer of all the worlds. With Allah's name, to him due all the praise we begin these Sunday afternoon talks. I see we have snow out there today and it's thickening up, coming down. We know when it comes, and it doesn't last forever, it goes away. All praise is to Allah you have made it here, you were here, you braved the snow and bad weather and came out. We have many who didn't make today and haven't made it yet.
But all praise is to Allah we'll enjoy the afternoon and pray that as many as possible will be able to attend the meeting regardless the conditions and the weather. Dear beloved Muslims, I don't want you to be over pressed, or filled, overly pressed to do things. Allah will always bless a certain number of people with the freedom and the strength, the good health, opportunity to carry on the work.
There are believers who will go to any extent to fulfill their duties. There are believers who leave their babies at home, leave problems at home that has to be attended to, and will come out in the snow and ice feeling bad, sick, through a lot of trouble and they force themselves to come out. Well, Allah will reward you greatly for that, but don't feel that you have to go to that extent to please Allah. Allah says that he does not want difficulty for us, he wants ease for us. That simply means that Islam, the religion of Islam is not a religion of self torture.
Allah doesn't like to see us torturing our selves. Don't think that you have to suffer beyond the degree of I would say where in there would be good sense to please Allah, you don't have to. Do what you can do, do what you're able to do, and always have the heart and desire to mind, to do, all that should be done. as long as we have the desire strong enough, then that is enough, if we're carrying out as much as possible, our duty to keep our faith and to keep our community strong and growing.
Allah says that he wants ease for us, he doesn't want difficulty for us. In the same revelation, the same book Allah says that surely with difficulty comes ease. In the same book he says also that he has created the human being in difficulty, he has put him into toil and struggle, into difficulties. We learn from this that Allah is saying to us that some difficulty is good to develop human muscles, to make human beings strong.
Allah has not created this difficulty for us because he wants that for us, he has created this for us because we needed to develop strength, and once we develop the strength then we can make our lives, a life more comfortable for ourselves. It takes strength to overcome the difficulties in life, and we need a little difficulty to develop the muscles for that strength. Allah is very wise, Allah is very merciful and very kind to us, very loving G-D.
He says to us that he doesn't want hardship for us, he wants ease for us. Filling yet, a little difficulty, a little hardship is good to season up and toughen up the human being. We have returned from Mecca and I know you'd like to hear me make a few comments on the Hajj. The group, the delegation from the United States and the the World Community of Al- Islam in the west they are still in Arabia, and in fact they might be in Madina today.
As you know, that was the home place, is the home place of the holy prophet Muhammad peace and blessings be upon him. We expect the group to return on the 30th of this month, so we still have a few more days to wait for them, and I'm eagerly awaiting their return. I'll be happy to greet them because they're heroes, and I'm telling you a fact they're heroes. See, I couldn't tell you all about Hajj because it wouldn't have been fair to you.
You're supposed to go with your own faith, you're supposed to go with your own desire to make the Hajj. No one is supposed to condition you much for that trip, you're supposed to condition yourself about praying to Allah and preparing for it. All we do is tell you it's a long trip, it's the Hajj, and there are some difficulties there. If I had told the whole story maybe some of those people wouldn't have gone. The whole story, the truth, the full story is that it has a lot of difficulties involved.
It tries you physically, it tries you mentally, tries you morally, tries you spiritually, it tries you in every way. When you come do it, you say. Surely with hardship, comes the ease . Anyone who makes the Hajj, and makes it with faith and devotion to Allah when he returns, he is a giant in comparison, in comparison to the person that left to make the Hajj. He comes back a giant, a giant of a person because he has seen so many sides of his own nature.
Now mind you have seen the sides of other people too. what Hajj really brings out yourself, when you make Hajj, you go there you're so happy to make Hajj, you want to see the Kaaba. You want to pray way Abraham prayed. You want to make the run that Hagan made. You want to drink from the Zam Zam. From the well, you want to drink that sweet holy water. All of those things are just so beautiful and so exciting in your mind. When you get there and find out how much energy it takes to make the run, at Haggar.
When you find out how tired you are, when you get to Zam Zam, and how you have to struggle with other Hajjis, to get some of that water so that you are not the only one going after that water, there's about 2 million I believe was there. They all want some of that water. It's only one well, they don't have a million of them, just one. You got 2 million people, all of them want some of that water. 2 million people all of them want circle the Kaaba. All of them want to make the run of Haggar. All of them want to throw the stones that there's Satan.
And hit Satan in the head, you see? All of them want to do it. Can you imagine that many people, all wanting to do it, and trying to do it at the same time? It's quite difficult. I don't mean that 2 million people will be there at Zam Zam, but there will be a whole lot of people there at Zam Zam. Thousands will be there, they will be lined up waiting to get to Zam Zam.
You're lined up, you're trying to get there too. You're struggling. There is a lot of difficulty involved, a lot of difficulty involved, but the true Hajj grows stronger, and grows healthier under that difficulty. The disbeliever he usually drops out. Yes, pretty soon it will tell on him. It will bring him out. He can't make it. It's too difficult for him. During the Hajj, there were speeches made and one of the brothers in fact, several other brothers, but one of the brothers I remember from the States, from Chicago, Doctor Ahmed Saka. He said, the Hajj is a Jihad.
Now, the western meaning they have given to Jihad is war, just war. Actually Jihad means, struggle. It doesn't mean war. Hark means war. War is Hark in Arabic. Jihad is struggle in Arabic, not war, struggle. A struggle it takes many different forms. Physical, mentally, moral, spirit, all kinds of struggles, right? Well Muslim, one of his duties is to wage, or perform Jihad. It is a duty of Muslims to struggle.
But not just in one avenue of life, on one field of human activity, he is to wage Jihad and every field of human activity, that Allah has given to us as lawful and good fields of human activity, you see? He is to wage Jihad, in every, or every level, and on every role of life, of society. For the sake of Allah, for the sake of Allah alone, to please Allah alone. The Hajj is a Jihad. It's a struggle. It's a wonderful Jihad. When you go there and see people, coming from all parts of the world.
All kinds of nationality, Japanese, Chinese, Korean, all kinds of Asiatics. Nigerian, Kenyan, Somalian, Ethiopians, all kinds of Africans. Now from different Arab countries. Europeans, you know I saw more Europeans on this trip than I ever saw. I know you all like me to call some of you, that is. We haven't yet been delivered, it's been over nine months, but you still trying to be, trying to get out that womb. 
You don't like me to call the Caucasians, brothers and sisters. Well I just have to tell the truth. Four Caucasian sisters, came up to me and greeted me. With faces just lit with joy and happiness. I mean, true Caucasians. They didn't look like dark Italians, they look like pure Caucasians. They came to me with their faces all lit up with joy and happiness, and they were just really shy. They were shy because they respected the Imam from the World Community of Islam so much.
That really they were shy to approach me. They were anxious, but shy. They were asking one of the sisters from here, "Is it okay to approach the Imam?" The sister said, "Yes." Sister said, "Brother Imam, here are some European sisters would like to give you their greetings." They gave the greetings, "Wa-Alaikum-Salaam." They were so happy to see us there. Like we're so happy to see you here. All praise, all praise due to Allah.
This is a new day and a great day. Very very great day. Excuse me, I have a little cold but don't let it bother you, it's not bothering me. I'm happy. The four Caucasians were there greeting me, with excitement on their face, that showed beyond a shadow of a doubt, that they were Muslims indeed. They were true Muslims, genuine Muslims, the best of the Muslims. I met Caucasian men the same way, very happy to see us, all excited.
In fact, maybe to some of you are surprised we had two, I believe are three Caucasians from the World Community of Islam there at the Hajj. I met two of them there, and you couldn't tell them from their brothers. They just were so happy and excited, they had the same look of Islam on their face that we have. Same happiness that we showed. Same love for their brothers and sisters, that shines on our face, was shinning on their faces.
This is the power of Allah and his word, the Quran. The message of prophet muhammad gave for the whole world. This is the power that we see. It's stronger that any artificial thing that this world can produce. There we saw the oneness of the brotherhood of man. The oneness of man in the brotherhood of Islam. All come and obeying one G-D, believing in one truth, accepting one messenger. As the messenger of G-D to all people.
Not to a particular race, but to all people. Accepting that there is no superiority, of color, or nationality, or profession, of social status or class. But only one superiority, and that is the superiority in terms of obedience to G-D. He who is best in his conduct before G-D, is the best among you. This, prophet muhammad told us. He said, "No superiority of Arab over non-Arab. And no superiority upon me, non-Arab or an Arab. No superiority of black over white. And no superiority of white over black."
He said, the only superiority is in obedience to G-D. This is what father Mohammad taught. We see that in the Hajj, that these nationalities and colors, from all over the world, have embraced that pure teaching. They lived together as one family. Drinking out of the same jug. Sleeping in the same tent. Resting upon the same heel. Standing upon the same Arafat. Listening to one teaching, one truth.
All bear witness to it, with one voice, with one mind, and one heart. Nobody saying, I'm white and I'm black. Nobody saying, "I'm a doctor, and he is a non-professional man why is he here?" He can't say that. The only superiority is, obedience to G-D. The Hajj's begin their trip by saying,  "I obey you, Oh G-D, I obey you." I won't come obeying myself, myself may lead me astray. I won't come obeying my nationality - my nationality may lead me astray. I won't come obeying my family or my tribe or my color these things might lead me astray. I won't come, Oh G-D, obeying the wealth and this dictates upon my life – I'm obeying the knowledge and this dictates in my life. I come obeying You, who originated the Heavens and the Earth.
In this spirit, we can solve all the problems on Earth. Every human problem can be solved if we move in that spirit. The Oneness of G-D, One G-D who looks upon faith. The Holy Quran says, If there were many, there would be confusion in the Creation.
And again, Allah in the whole Quran, he questioned the human nature he wants us to see our own nature. Is there a likeness is there a comparison between the two? One, obeying one master, and another obeying two or many? You can't compare them. A man who's trying to obey two masters he's confused. He's always in trouble with both of them.
"Oh, I told you to do this?" "But he also told me to do that I treat you both masters equally, so whenever he tells me something I have to do it."  This is confusion. Does the human being want two or three leaders that direct them, or one leader? Do we want two or three Presidents, or one President? Are there two or three heads over a university, or one head over a university? Human nature tells us, "One to be the absolute boss on top, and others to take advice." Is that right?
That is G-D, and if we accept the G-D like that, it brings us into a spirit to accept each other as brothers and sisters. As long as we believe that I have my own personal G-D and you have your own personal G-D, we'll never come together. Your G-D leads you one way, and my G-D leads me another way! If we can accept to have one G-D, and that G-D be the true G-D: who formed the Creation, formed life, directed and controls everything in the Heavens and the Earth.
If we give ourselves to that one, absolute authority who is Creator, Originator, who is judge not just today but yesterday. Before time began, He was there. One who was aware of things from the very beginning, and who will be aware of things until the end and nothing will outdo Him Everything will pass away, and He will exist forever and ever. Believing in that kind of G-D, all of us can come together.
We can come together and be brothers and sisters under that one G-D. We will respect each other as equals under that G-D. I believe in that G-D, you believe in that G-D. That G-D created you, that G-D created me. That G-D is my protector and your protector, don't you know that? Allah is not just the protector of a certain people, a certain individual, or a certain race. Allah is the protector of all people! Coming into that kind of knowledge brings us into the mind and spirit that is needed in order for us to make this society this human family on Earth a peaceful one, a sensible one.
Dear beloved brothers and sisters, the Hajj is a great message. It's a great message of struggle. Struggle to do what? Struggle to overcome those evils that deprive human beings of peace and happiness and security. What are those evils that deprive us of peace, happiness, and security? They are falsehood. Selfishness. Racism. Class distinction, and discrimination against classes.
These are the evils that deny the human being on Earth the blessings of peace, happiness, and security. Materialism; one people wanting to hoard all the wealth, wanting to monopolize the wealth of the land so that they can dictate the life of the other. The Hajj is designed to destroy these evils – all of them! What the are worst evil of them all? Deception. hypocrisy, in religion – and the Hajj is designed to destroy that!
We go and we throw stones at the Satan, the devil. We throw seven stones. Why seven stones? Because there are certain people who say that they are the chosen to the exclusion of other people. That the Sabbath is their Sabbath day by birthright, and the Sabbath day of other people by adoption. A certain people have made themselves legitimate creatures of G-D, and have written all other people off as illegitimate creatures of G-D that can only become G-D's servants or His sons and daughters, as the Christian scriptures or the Jewish scripture gives it by adoption.
I don't need anybody to adopt me I have a mother and a father and a G-D who created me! What would I need somebody to adopt me for? When you pick up the Christian and Jewish scriptures, and they talk about adoption and birthright: birthright for that particular class, birthright for that particular race it's supposed to be the children of G-D and adoption for all other.
Am I speaking the truth? Yes, nothing but the truth. The scheme of Satan is in the Bible, and is dealt with at Hajj. The Bible says seven eyes went out searching the land. They're trying to find somebody unfit, somebody to criticize, somebody to down. Those are the eyes of Satan, wanting to prove human beings are unfit for the dignity that their Creator has yet given them in creating them, wanted to prove that the human being is unfit for the dignity that Allah gave us. Another set of eyes seven went out. Searching the land to find those fit, believing that those human beings fit and qualify for the dignity that G-D created them in.
We have these two classes on Earth. One class of human beings, who have the mind and the mentality to tear down other people, they become racists of the worst kind. The other kind of people, who bring out the good in human beings proud of the good in human beings and want to bring it out to show it to the world:
"Hey, look here. Here's a good baby Here's a good girl. Here's a good man. Here's a good woman. Here are good people." On the other side is that Satan, "Look how sinful they are. Look how ignorant they are. Look how inferior they are."
Now, there's a particular people that mock people like that and go about trying to destroy the dignity of the human being to make their claim true. They're not satisfied, just to point out the weaknesses in the people. They feed the inferiority in the people. They feed the sin. They feed the weaknesses. They feed the filth. To make their claim true.
Don't you know that particular weaknesses is not limited or restricted to certain race? Are the one particular people guilty of it more than another? You'll find all people having among them some devils like that. Who make evil, wicked, discrediting statements against human goodness. against faith, against righteousness. They're not satisfied just to make statements, negative statements like that. They go about, sneakily, hypocritically. Enticing the people to  follow them into more corruption. Putting pressure, undue pressure, on people to make them give up their plan. Heeding their low desires, tempting their low appetites.
You'll find them in all colors. The first people that set out with a scheme, with a plan, to do this kind of wicked thing and deprive all the other people on earth of the dignity that Allah had given them, the first people that set out to do this were the people who were the people who were so-called Jews. The people who followed Moses. Disagreed with him. Who were given Jesus and rejected him. Among those people, you'll find the kingdom of Satan.
You find Satan existing outside of that kingdom too, among the Caucasian and among you. Some of you, under this evil, hypocritical environment, you have given up wanting to be right. And have made up in your heart and your mind that wrong is where it's at. You're unhappy with people around you being right. You can't stand right people. You've become a Satan. Well we hit you in the head until you're dead.
It's not a spooky, invisible thing that we're fighting. It's a human devil that we are fighting. Or I should say a human, a devil that has lost all his humanness. That's better. A devil that has lost all his humanness. That's what we are fighting. We pick up seven stones because that's the number that is used in the scripture called Bible. A Sabbath after seven days.
A major Sabbath after seven times seven days. We throw seven stones, but in all, we throw seven times seven stones, 49. Seven at a time. We try and not miss the mark. We try to hit the stone right in the head. What are we talking about stones? Bible say you stony heart. Stone mean that all the human being is gone.
How do we identify the human being? There's a word in the Arabic language to identify human being is called Bashar and prophet Muhammad is called the Bashar. It means a mortal, flesh and blood, human being. That's what it means. What does the word refer to directly? To the skin, Bashar, to the skin. We feel with the skin. The skin is sensitive.
The human being is made to be a sensitive creature, but we hardened up and become callous, like a stone. You touch him, you don't feel nothing but stone. He can't feel anything because he is stone. Cold-hearted, Cold-natured. Nothing touches his sentiment. Nothing stirs sentiments in him. Become a solid stone. Hardened against human nature. Hardened against G-D. That's the devil. That's the human devil. Or a devil who has lost all of his humanness.
We take stone and throw at stone. Seven stones at stone. What does that mean? Fight fire with fire. That's what it means, fight fire with fire. I can bring some water to the devil, but he's not skin anymore. Skin needs water, stone doesn't need water. Don't bring no water to the devil, bring a stone.
Oh, are you teaching that we're supposed to be a devil against the devil? No. Be a servant of G-D against the devil. If he persecutes you, persecute him. If he fights you, fight him. Don't talk sweet talk to him, don't say, "Baby, don't you know, G-D loves you?" It takes skin, flesh and blood, to hear that. The devil has lost that.
Have you seen anybody more successful than me, in your day and time? In driving the devil back and bringing people into their human form? You haven't seen anybody more successful than me. I am soft with the human being. That's what Allah tells us in the holy Qu'ran, they being soft as milk with the believers. But be hard as a stone, against the disbelievers.
You don't help a wicked person by sweet-talking them. You want to help a wicked person, be strong against them. Then you help them. The Honorable Elijah Muhammad, he was a fiery teacher. He spit fire like a dragon. He fought fire with fire. We have to continue to do the same thing. Now we should know better how to direct our fire. I don't see the klansmen standing out there, giving me trouble. I see a certain mentality. That is in Caucasian in Balalian and in other people. That's still giving me trouble, so as long as we're being bothered by the human devil of the devil who lost his humanist, we have to fight that devil and fight him with fire. Stone against stone he is hard, I'll show you I can be hard. Don't think I'm going to hit you with a tomato; a tomato will burst on the stone.
I'm going to hit you with some like yourself, something hard. Do you know what is the coldest thing in the world? A lie against G-D and humanity. That's the coldest thing in the world. A lie against G-D and humanity. Satan is the one who lied against G-D and lied against humanity. Falsified human nature made people think human nature was something inferior to what it really is. Satan did that, Where did he do it? In your bible? Just have a little patience I'm not going to keep you here all day.
What do we mean by cold? We mean hard- hearted. The heart is rock, is that heart, that denied G-D and deny human dignity, that's the hardest heart you can see on earth. Now where can I find a hardness? To destroy that hardness? I find it in the truth that Allah has given in the Quran. We throw stones but those stones are only symbols, they're not the real thing they're symbolic.
Allah says is in his Quran truth, hits falsehood in the head, and knocks out his brain. Seven stones means throw the truth, directly into the head, into the mentality of this lying world. Throw the truth, directly into the head, directly into the mind of this lying world, and don't do it just on Monday. Do it Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday and Sunday. Do it everyday of the week. Do it seven days a week, until he's dead.
This is the act, this is battle against the devil, on the highest level. Don't forget what I told you just earlier. If he comes up to me with a muscle I'm going to show him I got a muscle. If he hit me with a stick I'm going to find me a brick. There are some sheepish people who will let wicked people just coming to their holy life and tear it up. You come over here you'll get your butt stripped and I don't mean the cloths stripped off, I mean the meat striped off the bones.
We are peace loving people, we love Allah, we love all people. We're out here battling talking to our own kind right here, the Bilalian people, but there are thief out there who are also our kind, human kind, and we hope that this truth will reach the whole humanity. Don't think with some -- singing angels we are flesh and blood human beings.
We can be angered, we can be set on fire, and I just hope we don't start burning, I hope we can keep the peace. I hope nobody underestimates us. The righteous are the fearless. They fear nothing but Allah. They are hard on the devil and his , tender and soft with the believers. Dear beloved Muslims this is a great day, a great day, Allah has blessed us in many, many, many ways. In so many ways that we're not able to see and count them right now. It will take years and a decade or so for us to really recognize and see all the blessings that come into our life in the last three years.
Dear beloved people. I pledge my life, my whole life. To do the will of Allah. To preach truth and righteousness justice and human dignity. If I must to lose my life in battle against those who want to destroy this work. I don't care nothing about my life, I want to see this life grow and prosper. If losing my one life serve that call, I'm ready to lose it, I'm happy to lose it.
I'm not asking you to prepare for war. I'm asking you to keep your eyes open, and be ready to suffer whatever you must suffer, to advance the cause. If we have to suffer, the absence of the comfort that we now enjoy, be prepared to suffer that. If you have to suffer criticism, hatred, persecution coming from a certain people, or a certain group, be prepared to take that.
Don't think that everything is going to be sweet music all the time. That's not life, life throws in a little bitter, occasionally. To make us appreciate the sweets, and we have to be prepared, to accept the bitter. Then endure, in order to hold on to the sweet. The bitter is the inferior.  what do I mean by that? The liar, the hypocrites, the unrighteous, they are the inferior, they are the weak, they are the cowards, but they hope that their pressure on you, or their confusion that they make, will dishearten you, to cause you to lose faith, cause you to give up. And in so doing, they eliminate numbers from the camp of the righteous. The camp of the righteous that should be the superior becomes the inferior because they were open to the tricks of the unrighteous. Two or three years ago, I told you how the wicked people plotted and worked against Mohammed. They said, "Let us go in and fill their rank. Let us pretend to be the best of followers. And then at a certain time, we will all withdraw and leave them." See this will kill their morale. They will say, "We know that those people were good people. How come they're gone?" Be aware of these tricks. They never change.
When summer comes, they come out. Why? Because they know during the summertime we're going to get good meeting. They want to be out there to be in a group and look for an opportunity to hurt somebody, to weaken somebody's faith. When winter time comes, when hard time comes, they withdraw. We can't find them because they know that this is hard on you now. Only a few will be out.
Then we won't show up and maybe they come out and just see a few, they will become disheartened. They will lose faith. They'll say, "No. Imam W D Mohammed. He's not the right leader. He can't keep us together." If you come here and find one person that's enough for W D Mohammad? I would like to see one million. I would like to see one billion. I would like to see all of our people.
Allah knows if I can have one person standing in this place. I won't be discouraged. I will be brave and courageous with just one person. Don't think numbers is strength with me. Faith and righteousness is strength with me. I'd rather have one true person, than have a billion false people. The Holy Qu’ran.  Says when they think it's going to be a difficult battle, they stay at home.
If the believers gets killed in the battle they say, "See if you had followed us you wouldn't have gotten killed, you won't lose your member and your family. We knew there would be trouble for Mohammad and his followers so we stayed at home." When there is an easy battle and they think that they're going to be gains material gains, they go out. We're not worried about people like that. We shouldn't even waste our time with people like that. Let them go. Don't let them deceive you and weaken your faith.
Dear beloved believers. We have a great job to do of giving human beings back their human life. The world of falsehood. The world of the human Satan. That Satan who denied his humanness. That world has taken human nature out of society. You can only find a few people still having true human nature. People loving each other for unnatural reason. Befriending each other for unnatural reason.
The natural humanness is not there anymore. All praise due to Allah, there's still enough of us around here who have human heart and human brain to deal with them, reform them, transform them or destroy them. That's what we got to do. We got to reform the inhuman people of this world or transform them or destroy them. The same thing we used to reform and also transform it also kills. So Imam W D Mohammed. What is he all about? I've heard all his religiousness. You dumb donkey fool.
You don't know anything empty headed mule. They can't see the influences that master life in society. They can't see that Allah has blessed us in America with the influences from his revelation to overcome the influences of the devil in this wicked society. They can't see that those who built their world on destruction are now no match for us who build our world on truth and righteousness. They can't see that what Allah has blessed us with is more powerful than the seven fleets.
More powerful than an atomic bomb the hydrogen bomb. More powerful than the Gastapo. Steel and gunpowder and gunfire is no match for what we got. It goes to the individual. It enters his head. Can the gun shoot itself? If I got something that will reach the brain of the gunman, I got a gun more powerful than his. Does the missile fire themselves or are they fired by men? We have a truth that turns the brain. Whereas just a minute ago, the sight were there and ready to pull the trigger.
The sight saying even in the kingdom of the devil, the strongest weapon is not the physical weapon. The strongest weapon is the invisible weapon. We have come to a time in the history of civilization wherein the weapons of war have almost become obsolete. The real war now is the battle of mind, and we got the best and the most powerful mind. Well that sounds good, chief? But that ain’t going to get me no job. You short-sighted fool. That’s going to get you equality. This truth that I give you from Allah, from the Quran will give you more than a job. It will give you equality. It will put you on equal plane with everybody, and make you a superior over many. You’re talking about a job. If that’s all I had to offer you? I would join the Steelworkers’ union or the Collar’s union or something. I would join Jesse Jackson. If that’s all I had to offer you was a job.
Man got your five senses. Got your conscience. Got your sentiments. Got even your sex drive. All in his grip. All in his power. He can turn you on sexually when he gets ready. Turn you on mentally when he get ready. Turn your senses off when he get ready. Bloat out your conscience when he gets ready. Who is he I’m talking about? I’m talking about the devil mentality that rules the Western society. Can turn people on and off anyway, they want to. And here you’re talking about a job. And I’m trying to give you back your nature and command over yourself. Trying to put the switch back into your hand.
When you turn your sex on for yourself. Turn it off for yourself. Turn your conscience on for yourself. Turn it off for yourself. Turn your sentiments of heart on for yourself. And turn them off for yourself. I’m trying to give you control of your life. Trying to give it back to you. And some of you are out here so stupid, “How many jobs that he’s going to give us? What is he doing about the businesses?” We got a good businessman taking care of the businesses.
You heard from him today  Brother Nadar Ali. He’s doing a good job talking care of the businesses. And he told you the only business we have that is closed is your supermarket, and it’s going to be opening pretty soon. I can’t understand these people. Go to US Steel say, ”Oh, no jobs”. Come to mosque and expect for us to have jobs. Go to First National bank, no loans. Come to us, expect a loan. We don’t have the money that First National have. We don’t have the employment capacity that US Steel has.
Why you expect more of us than you expect of the world? But we are doing our job. We are not forsaking the business. We’re trying to put the business in healthy natural form. We don’t want to operate places of business. We don’t want a mack of a business. We want the business. We don’t want a facade. We want the real thing. Sometimes you have to back up to go forward. When you didn’t do those things right back behind you, it’s best to back up and do it right, and then go forward.
So we had to back up, pay a lot of bills. Back up and pull a lot of loose strings back together like they're supposed to be. Back up and get our hands and our control on what we got. And after we’ve gotten ourselves in command of our own possessions, we can move forward. I have no trouble with the believers. The trouble is with the hypocrites. He’s giving up this, he’s giving up that -- why don’t he tell the truth? Why doesn’t he tell the truth? We’re not giving up anything. We’re doing what we have to do.

And we’re trying to give businesses to Muslims in this community who are qualified to operate them. Who have some money to buy them? If they don’t have money to buy them, but they show qualification, we’re even willing to lend them. Give them a loan agreement. Have an agreement with them. When they pay after the business start to produce. Should we be criticized for this? I would think the public and the believers would praise us for this.
I remember the time when everything was just in the hands of the mosque administration. Everything. Newspapers, fish. Everything. And the workers were paid the bare minimum wage. Bare minimum. Now, I don’t regret that time. It was a beautiful time. It shows what the people could do who believe, who have faith in leadership. Many of you worked for $40 a week and you had a wife and several children to take care of. Many of you sold 300 papers a week, and hardly realized you’ll sell $40 or more in profit for the whole week.
Many of you worked day and night and took home maybe $100. 16 hours, took home maybe $100. Fish program. A lot of fish were sold, but a lot of fish was lost. Why? Because fore brothers out there walking up down the street with whiting H and  G fish in 80 degree weather. His fish is thawing out but he got to sell it. He’s selling it for the honorable Elijah Muhammad. I’m not crying. It was a beautiful thing that a man could have that much faith in another man of his own color.
A man that was taught not to respect his own color. Was taught that he was inferior and his leadership was inferior. That that man should ignore all the criticism of the Caucasian society, and follow an uneducated Bilalian man, the honorable Elijah Muhammad, with that degree of dedication and sacrifice. I say it was beautiful. It was beautiful. I’m not crying. But I’m pointing there to show you something. Here you have something today that’s more beautiful. Why do I say it’s more beautiful?
Under the honorable Elijah Muhammad, we proved that we could slave under a black taskmaster. We proved to the world that Bilalian people could give the black leader the same servitude that he gave the white master. Was that necessary? Yes, it was. If it hadn't happen in history, would've been having a big question in it, the white men got blood and sweat out on those black fools. I bet that they would never give it to a black man, well, that question would never happen to be in our history, we gave it to the honorable Elijah Muhammad.
We worked double shifts for half weeks pay. We neglected wives and children to give the donations to the honorable Elijah Muhammad. Many have lost cars , lost homes, lost lives following the honorable Elijah Muhammad. Many of us was beaten physically, whipped and tortured while safe in our dutifulness under the leadership of the honorable Elijah Muhammad. I'm talking reality, I'm giving you facts.
Many good brothers we're beaten and whipped and killed, just because they we're good. I know a few of them personally who lost their lives. Beaten to the death in a cruel way, simply because they were good. They were just sincere, dedicated people. Hated by those that who wanted to see their works destroyed. I've seen the honorable Elijah Muhammad talked to one of his officials, just like the slave master talked to the slaves. What are you doing? You do that again, I'm going to bust you down. I'll give you ninety days or six months.
I've seen them beg and plead for forgiveness, just like the Uncle Tom did. I've seen them rubbing their heads and backing up backwards. Yes, sir. Yes, sir, dear holy apostle, dear holy apostle. Exactly the same way they did for the Caucasian slave master. I've seen them do that for the honorable Elijah Muhammad. That was necessary. We had to see that there was still a place in our life for Bilalian authority and that that  authority could be just as strong as Caucasian authority in our lives.
I saw the honorable Elijah Muhammad call a brother once. I want you just name out the fictitious name. Joe. And he came trodden. Just like the slave did for the slave master. He didn't call him brother Joe, he didn't said Mr. Joe, he said just plain Joe. And this brother came trodden. Yes sir dear Holy Apostle, Yes sir Dear Holy Apostle. And the Caucasian was standing there. I know you don't like to hear me talking this kind of talk. But I'm going to talk it because you need it. I don't care about how you feel about me, you don't have to love me.
I'm not here to make you love me, I'm here to make you good Muslim and strong people. The Caucasian has brought some packages to the honorable Elijah Muhammad house, and the honorable Elijah Muhammad met the Caucasian and then called Joe to get the packages. His name wasn't Joe, I can't give you his name, he's still living. He ran, yes, sir, yes, sir. And the honorable Elijah Muhammad told the Caucasian he said that I thought he leave it right here, my boy take it.
My boy will take it. That man was over 40 years old then. So the honorable Elijah Muhammad told him my boy will take it. Why do you think Allah let me see those things. He was preparing me for this day. So I will know BOTH SIDES. The weakness and then the strengths, and will be able to see the wisdom in what was done. That hurt me as a child, I'll tell you the truth, it hurt me. And for a long time back, for most of my years that are behind me, that thing stuck in my mind and hurt me.
But I grew understand it, the honorable Elijah Muhammad was showing that Caucasian, you used to have him, but now I got him. And see, you thought it was your boy, didn't you? You see I called Joe, and Joe came running, and I told Joe right in front of your face that my boy will take it, and Joe didn't complain. Joe picked up those packages and took them back in the back of victory for a Georgia boy. He's been wanting to get even with that old Caucasian slave master.
Now don't you know that’s the worst hurting you can put on a man? Men takes your wife, that  puts a hurt on you, right? Now the hurting that you can put on him is the same he did to you, take his wife , right in his face. Hay baby come here . Kiss daddy on his cheek, kiss him on his hands, kiss him on his elbow, have a kiss on his knees, make that man want to die. Say G-D I wish I was dead . But the honorable Elijah Muhammad, he had been mad for a long time, been mad at that Caucasian bossing his people around, and he couldn't do nothing about it.
So he found out what he could do to hurt that Caucasian, just like he hurt him. Take his boy back. Take his wife back say come here baby, baby come running. To you 1960, black power people, you ain't old enough to understand these wise things, but just hang around we’ll teach you. This is a new day. The old things won't work anymore, nothing will work, but what you see us using. You picked up something else, you're going to fail. Allah is not with something else, Allah is with this.
If I wanted to, I could excite you. I don't want people following me with drunk minds, I want sober minded people following. I know how to make you drunk. There's enough happening in the business department for me to come out here and brag on it and make you drunk. But you don't catch me coming out here bragging about what we're doing, business wise. And we are doing something to brag about. It's a long road we have overcome in this three years.
There's enough for us to carry on the highest building, top of the highest building in the United States and brag from that top, from the top of that building. That's right. But I'm not bragging over those things. I could make a show of numbers, but you don't get me out here drumming up numbers, to make a show of number. We have big conventions, February conventions. 10,000 people come out. 15,000 people. Do you think we can't get that? I won't ask all the people to come to Chicago for our February convention.
Just to show you if we have numbers. Just to make a show of 20,000 or more. We can make a show I believe of 100,000, if we tried. Biggest number you ever saw in the history of these people. Or of any other  people, the Bilalian people. I'm not talking about the marches. If we would march, there wouldn't be enough room. 
That's right. We would to have to have all kind of-- they have to have I think some bulldozer knock down a lot of buildings if we would march. I'm not bluffing. I'm talking to real truth. This is real. If we would get out of here and start marching on a good day, in good weather, and March like the civil right marchers did, before we get to our destination, before we covered the territory they covered, we'd have so many people that look like the ocean just poured into the city.
But they're not the people we want. We don't want marchers, we want Muslims. We don't want people to come out just for a show, we want Muslims.
This February if we wanted to we could fill any big house they've got here. The McCormick place will fill it up. For what? Just so News the week, on New York Times to say the organization is really growing. They have their biggest attendance this year. No. Believe me they know.
We don't have to show them, and we don't have to show you. That money that believers spend coming here they can save it and to put it to some good cause at home. Why give the transportation all that money? Public transportation all that money. The people give up on-- set back three to six months, some of you will set back a year just making one day. It was good in the time of show-offishness. When show-offishness was in season. I come plain in the open, we don't need that, it's too expensive.
A certain troubleshooter, and I don't mean the kind that shoots for trouble to correct trouble, I'm talking about the one that shoots for trouble to make trouble. Criticize the second resurrection. Said if there's a second resurrection that means you died twice. You're certain that you're speaking the truth. There's no need for a second resurrection unless something died again, or died a second death.
We were dead to our own human worth; the honorable Elijah Muhammad made us alive to our own self worth. But over the years, especially the last ten years, I'm going to tell you the progress, the community leadership and many of the followers, they'll dead again. They died under the material influences. They died the death of the materialist.
Certainly you were dead twice, and exactly what we mean when we say second resurrection. We mean you had to be brought to life again because you had died. Many of you had died morally and spiritually and in every other sense, you were just alive as tools of destruction. How pitiful it is that people criticize and don't know their criticism is pleasing. Listen to what they say. They're criticizing, but their criticism is praise. If ever there's a second resurrection, it means that you folks, some of you folks must have died twice, died again.
Well that's right. Some of you folks did die again. Not this man standing here. If one of you hadn't stayed alive, there wouldn't been a second resurrection. All praises to Allah. I never died with you. Do you want to find the best follower of the first resurrection? Here he is; the best in the first and best in the second. If I wasn't, I wouldn't be qualified for this position.
I respected my kind, I loved my kind. I was truthful. I preserved the precious wisdom of the first resurrection. I didn't smoke, I didn't drink, I didn't gamble. I wasn't lusting for wealth for any of those things. So, wasn't I,a model follower of honorable Elijah Muhammad? Didn’t eat pork, I obeyed the discipline and the laws of the temple of Islam under the honorable Elijah Muhammad. And when you were around here chasing dollars, riding in Cadillacs, Mercedes-Benz, I was studying lesson number one, lesson number two.
English Lesson C number one. 14 questions and answers, 40 problems, the actual facts. I was studying them because I knew that this community needed answers. And it needed direction. So I was studying to prepare myself, so that if there was any need for help, I would be around to help. Not that I wanted to be the boss, I never wanted to be the boss. But I wanted to be in a position that if the community needed help, I would have some help for the community. So I studied and I prepared myself and I got understanding.
Allah blessing with it. I prayed to him and begged him for guidance. He blessed me with understanding. And what I got, I made mental note of it, I made them physical, a written note of it. And I continued and continued, and never gave up. And time came when the community needed help. And I came with plenty help. With plenty of help.
I was made leader of the nation of Islam, now called World Community of Islam in the West.  Do you think anybody can take that from me? No, indeed. Why? Because nobody gave it to me, Allah gave it to me. What Allah give you nobody can take away. I didn't come begging for it. I wasn't seeking it. Allah gave it to me because I was the only one around here that deserves it. If you have a question just wait until I finish. Yes, sir. As soon as I finish. Soon as I finish.
Now, brothers and sisters. I want you to understand that this is Allah's work. All of us we are just having a place in it, and thanks be to Allah if we have a place in it, but don't think that is some work of Wallace D. Muhammad. It was impossible for Wallace D. Muhammad to sit down and plan, what have happen? It was impossible for Wallace D. Muhammad to go on his own and find the knowledge that I found. One of the names of Allah is to finder. He is the finder. He found the knowledge and gave it to me.
What do I mean by that? I mean that he uncovered it for me. I would have never seen it, if he hadn't uncovered for me. I went seeking, but I didn't know where the thing was. Allah had to show it to me. Dear beloved Muslims. Allah has shown me so plainly that he is in complete control of this mission here in America. That I don't have any doubt, any suspicion, any question. I don't have a single question to ask G-D. And it's perfectly clear to me that this is his work.
He is in control, I hear talk they say, so and so and so said this against you. So and so and so said this about the community. They organized to do this, organizing to do that. I wish they knew what I knew. They're wasting their time. They're wasting their time. I feel sorry for them because they can't see what I can see. They're wasting their time.
Do you know where this community came from? From thousands of years of rejection and oppression. This here is the result of the righteousness that was working in the earth thousands of years ago. This is not just a force that came about yesterday. The force you see working here is the same force that was working in Abraham, Moses, Jesus, Prophet Muhammad, his companion. If Abraham is still alive today, do you think you can kill him?
Audience: I won't do it.
Imam W. Deen Mohammed:  If Moses is still alive today and Jesus is still alive, you think you can kill them?
Audience: No.
Imam W. Deen Mohammed: If Muhammad is still alive today, you think you can kill him?
Audience: No, we cannot.
Imam W. Deen Mohammed: We are alive today. You can't kill us.  The driving force of all the righteous behind us are with us today.  This is not just our day, this is Abraham's day, Moses's day, Jesus's day, Prophet Muhammad’s day. This is the day of all the righteous. You think it's W.D. Muhammad you're contending with? It's the force of every righteous soul that have ever lived on this earth that you're dealing with. And Allah is behind it. He is the one who has brought the season in, and he is the one who's going to guarantee the harvest. Complain all your want. Scheme all your want.
Your schemes are going to backfire against you, and your complaints are not going to make me feel in any way discourage. Why a waste of time. Dear beloved, brothers and sisters. We are building human life back again as it should be built as Allah created it the first time. Giving the men and the women back to their nature. Making it possible for the human life to grow and blossom, and command respect in the world. The scripture is loaded with all kinds of signs and signal.
Pointing to this day and time, there are wise people of the Christian religion and of the Jewish religion and of Islam that have seen signs in this community, in Chicago, and throughout the United States and other places. Under this leadership, they have seen signs that this is a divine work that Allah has blessed this community. That Allah has guided this community, and they know that a new sun is rising and it's nothing they can do.
They should pray Allah, and cheer in the new day. But those foolish people who can't see for looking at the wrong thing, they laughed at what we are doing. Or you're going now and into the mosque? Get hyped up again, going down to get your religious fix. Yes? And you'll be well-off if you came down and got your religious fix.
The world of confusion that therefore that we are living in the streets, it gets us suped up. It takes us out of our natural conscious. Make us to come drunk and high on the temporary things of this life, and they laugh at you for coming here to get sobered up. You come here to get sobered it up. To get an injection, that will give you a protection against the drunken influences of the society.
But a person once well respected man refer to your all coming to hear and to churches and synagogues, too, as one coming to get a religious fix. If that’s all you think it is, then stay away from it. Stay away from it. Dear brothers and sisters, the wisdom of G-D is so much above our little sense that we can't see the wonders for just looking at superficial things. The human life is not a life that's so simple or simple life like putting a wheel back on an automobile, or fixing a flat tire. The human life is a very complicated thing.
Your life is made of so many complicated powers and influences and whatnot. And if you don’t have a knowledge of human nature, you will miss the great wisdom. Those with knowledge of human nature, they can appreciate what we are doing. You can have a physical form of a human being, and not be a human being at all. You can have a head and brain, physical brain, but not have human sense at all. It takes the right knowledge and the right kind of influences to reach your mind and your heart, to make you grow into a real human being, mentally, morally and spiritually.
That’s our work, what work can be greater? No work can be greater than that work. Once that work is done, then that person have his own life in his own hands, he can do something in the community, in the city, in the society, but as long as he doesn’t have his own life intact, he is useless, somebody has to carry him, or somebody will be using him. How these people boast of having knowledge. Who have flowery speech, very good English, eloquent, articulate and yet so dumb. I don’t understand it.
They can’t see that before you make a world, you have to first make a man. Make a man, and a man will make a world, or let’s get some money. Let’s get some power, let’s get an army. Who are the let’s that talking about let's do that. There are people that's not men, not women. They are not even together within themselves. Their bowels is in the head, and their brains are where their bowels should be. And we think, wait a minute, wait a minute, we are going to get all those things.
We are going to get better living conditions, we are going to get better jobs, we are going to get businesses, but wait a minute, man, let me put your brains back down there-- up here where it belongs, and put your bowels back down there where it belongs. I'm going to wait for that. I want to see something right now. Looking through his bowels talking about somebody wants to see some right now.
Allah made the world, the world is a natural world, from this natural world, we get science. I'm a scientist. What I do follows the rule of science. I don’t do things haphazardly. I don’t jump here and there, I do things in step and in stages. I follow the guidance of G-D. There are sure steps, firm, solid, sure steps. They will get us where we have to go. But somebody with a political mind that want to dream up ideas and snatch pages away from rotten history, and plan today’s strategy.
They are going to do nothing but lead you backwards and down into a ditch that you will never be able to come out of. Do you believe Muslims? Our work is very simple. It’s complicated because your heart is wrong. You can’t see straight, but if you get your heart right, our work is very simple. What are we doing? Showing human being first what is nature, showing him that nature can be taken away from him. To you, maybe it doesn’t make sense, maybe this is nothing.
But to a wise person, this is more valuable than all the money and books--,  all the gold , all the money in the First National bank. Your nature can be taken away from you, but if you taught your nature, you can keep your nature, and nobody can take your nature away from you. You have to give it up yourself. They won’t be able to take it. We have been taught that the Caucasian in the past, and we were taught that the Caucasian was a devil by nature.
I'm telling you and I have been telling you for years, the nature itself can be taken away. Every child is born with a Muslim nature. Doesn’t this world take away that nature? With its lies it’s filt, its corruption. Doesn't it take away that nature? So that tells you that we are born with a righteous nature, we are born with a Muslim nature, but the world takes our nature away. Let us look at the lesson where it says that the original man is the Asiatic black man, owner, maker, cream of the planet earth, father of civilization, G-D of the universe.
The same teacher said, and the devil fooled them, when there were no babies. The G-D of the universe, the owner,  the makers of the world were fooled by the Caucasian when they were no babies. So why does he act, other than himself, said because he was fed the wrong kind of food. This is what Master Fard taught the second resurrection and the first resurrection, what I mean by that we have the same knowledge that those claim that they have or.
I don't know what they're claiming, really. So here the Caucasian now fed the G-D, food, and the food destroyed him. What kind of G-D is this? That eating pork takes away his G-Dliness? What kind of G-D is this, that being taught Christianity takes away his G-Dliness? What kind of original man is this that you put him in a Caucasian society, he loses his originality? And what kind of Caucasian devil is that, that is a devil by nature, grafted the devil by nature, that if you keep one of them from the wicked society, they won't be a devil?
Master Fard's wife never mixed with anybody other than good Muslims, so the Honorable Elijah Muhammad says that she was a holy woman. So where's the power then? Is the power in the physical flesh? Or is the power in the influences of the society? Master Fard's mother, a pure Caucasian. The Honorable Elijah Muhammad say don't call her a devil, she was a righteous woman. Say she never mixed with any of the unrighteous people.
So if not mixing with unrighteous people will keep Caucasian flesh righteous, then that tell me the influences are stronger than the flesh.
That if mixing with the Caucasian bad influences will make a black G-D a black devil, that tells me the influences are stronger than the black flesh. The black G-D taken out of his black kingdom and put into the Caucasian society become the black slave, a liar, a drunkard And the Caucasian G-Ddess taken out of the Caucasian society and put in a good Muslim society becomes a holy, righteous woman.
I am talking master Fard's talk, letter for letter. Am I giving his word letter for letter?  I am going to finish in a few minutes; I'm going to open up for questions. And I don't want to see a single one of you challenge anything I say. Those people that you look, listen to, who are criticizing me, if they had the sense that I have in one hand as in one of my toes, they wouldn't criticize me. They criticize me because they are dumb.
Master Fard didn't come here to beautify as much as he came here to destroy. He came to destroy the influence in your life and in my life from Caucasian racist mentality. He came to break the spell that they had on our people. That was his main job. The Honorable Elijah Muhammad called him a Christ was. He said, "You know what Christ means? It means crusher." He say he came to crush the wicked.
So one coming to destroy, if that's his main job, then someone has to come up behind him and build up. And in coming behind Master Fard Muhammad, I build up, I come in just like a man, behind a warrior, who came in and just tore the town up. I come in and I have to clean the streets. I have to repair the buildings. I have to build new buildings. Make the city clean and fit to live in again. But in doing it, I have added to the dignity and to the statue of the warrior.
For if this town was left war-torn, what credit would that be to him in history? That he just made war, made a lot of trouble and tore up everything.
All praise be to Allah, that Allah blessed Wallace D. Muhammad to be a builder.  My job is not to tear down. My job is to build up. I tear down because of a necessity. Master Fard Muhammad, he build up because of a necessity. His job was to tear down. And the building he did was just because of a need. He had to do it.
But he didn't come to build, he came to tear down. I didn't come to tear down, I came to build. But of necessity I have to tear down some time.
The Honorable Elijah Muhammad, Master Fard Muhammad, their great wisdom would never had been seen if Allah hadn't blessed my eyes to open their secret. People were laughing at them. And don't think the Honorable Elijah Muhammad got people to praise his work, he got people to praise their work. I'll explain to you what I mean.
Building supermarkets was not his work, that's their work, that's everybody's work. Everybody build supermarkets. Everybody in business. He got credit for doing business. He got credit for cleaning up the bad morals in his society. But these things a Christian gets credit for. Many others get credit for doing the same. With sinful people. I can take you to whole countries that have been cleaned up that way. I can take you to Communist countries who have that victory. They'll tell you, "We don't have prostitution, we don't have death, we don't have dope."
They've cleaned up their society, Communist people have done that. So that's not where the real victory is, not for Muslims. But when Allah blessed me, to see the secrets of Master Fard and the Honorable Elijah Muhammad, he opened a way for them to get new credit and new dignity. Now you've got wise people in the Catholic religion, wise people in the Protestant religion, wise people in Jewish-ism, wise people in Islam, all taking a second look at Master Fard and the Honorable Elijah Muhammad, because Allah has blessed W. Deen Muhammad to unlock their secret.
"Oh, I ain't going to follow him, he's trying to discredit the Master, he's burying the Master." I'm burying him as a leader. For today, but I'm preserving him as a leader yesterday. He was a leader yesterday, and he will always get the credit for being a powerful psychologist and a great reformer. I'm not burying him, he's there. Look around here, do you see me trying to put my picture up? The Honorable Elijah Muhammad’s picture is up more than mine.
I like to see you loving him, because he did a great work. But I wouldn't like to see you follow him, because his leadership is up, his day is out. Now there are some who say, "We got to follow the Honorable Elijah Muhammad, dead or alive." Those who say that, they are not legitimate Muslim. There is only one man that we follow, dead or alive, and that is prophet Muhammad  to whom the Qur’an was revealed. We don't follow him because he was black, or white, or purple, we follow him because G-D gave him the last revelation to unlock the mysteries of power.

We follow him because he brought growth that last light that make the life complete. The religious life complete. When we follow him, we follow all the prophets. That's why we follow him. How can we follow the Hon. Elijah Muhammad and follow all the prophets, when the Hon. Elijah Muhammad his talk was limited to the dignity of one people. And Allah has created all people and he wants all people to be in dignity, or to have dignity.
How can we follow the Hon. Elijah Muhammad? His time was limited, and he told you, “Hurry, the time is limited,” that the time is short. Isn't that what he told you? He didn’t tell you this will go forever. Now, I'm trying to reason with a few of you who still have a confused mind. Think that this is three years after the passing of Hon. Elijah Muhammad, and now he's supposed to come back in the physical body or even as a spirit in Farrakhan-- Excuse me, Mr. Farrakhan, or Minister Farrakhan, or Brother Farrakhan. I don't know what title should be, his  talks sounds mighty confusing to me. All right, Mr. Silas, there is one call himself Silas. He sent letters up to every messages, all the Imams, telling them to hurry and join on to their own kind, follow Prophet Silas, the return of Hon. Elijah Muhammad in the spirit and send your donations to such and such number.
Would I’d be-- Would I’d be a true leader, to see the wolf coming for the young sheep and not warn the herd, no, I wouldn’t be a true leader. I’ve been looking and wondering what colors these people had. I didn’t want to come out too soon, and say something for fear I might have misjudged, but I’ve heard enough now.

These people can’t wait for Allah to bring a better season around, so they can have more money and better things. They have to devised some fascinating story, and some fascinating program to attract an emotional people to become their slaves and their tools. They’ll use your back to sit on, and they’ll become a little pimp with diamonds, with a big bankroll sitting on your back. If that’s what you want, go and get it, but don’t come this way. I'm telling you right now, you follow anybody that say they represent Islam, but they say he'd differ with W D Muhammad theologically. Or they differ with him on any serious principle. I’d rather you differ too get the hell them out of here and go catch up with him.

Dear beloved brothers and sisters, simple, truth, too much for a fool and a blind fool at that to understand. I can tell you two sentences, and they'll start working in your life as influences, to do more good and making you prosper in every way, than what those other people will say to you in 50,000 years. What do I tell you? I tell you that the object of human life is government. Not just government of the many, government of the individual.
That G-D has given your nature, the nature to drive and move forward to come into government, where in your own self just to put in the throne of yourself, and rule the members and the force is in yourself as the absolute king in authority on the throne. That you cannot exist alone, you must come together with your other brothers and sisters, and form a collective government, and that collective government must have one authority over it. That is G-D, His Quran.
The sunnah of Prophet Muhammad and an Imam because G-D won't speak to you through any vision, or through any spook. G-D is going to preach His Quran through an Imam. He’s going to explain the sunnah and give you the life of Prophet Muhammad through an Imam. Prophet Muhammad is not-- Here physically, and G-D is not going to show himself physically to nobody, G-D is going to work always to a deserving human being.
The fools can't understand the wisdom. Once the human being accepts that government is the object of his human growth, if he accepts that, he shall grow stronger and stronger every day, more coordinated every day, he’s not going to tolerate any disorder, or any-- What they call it? Insubordination in his kingdom because he knows that he is destined to move G-D's government, and he is going to be the king on the throne.
What else have I told you? Not anything that I have created, this is the wisdom of G-D, that he blessed Prophet Muhammad with. I told you that Allah said it and He says it plainly in the Quran, that he has not created men or jinn for anything except his worship. By that, we conclude that the human being is master and slave at the same time. This is the great wisdom.
The human being is master and slave at the same time. If he accepts his master role and rejects his slave role, he’s in for destruction. If he accepts his slave role and rejects his master role, he’s in for destruction. If he accepts them both, he’s on the way to victory, behind victory.

Give yourself totally to Allah as His willing slave servant and accept responsibility over your own self as master. Don’t let your hand, your feet, your heart, or nothing speak to you in any disrespectful way. Say shut up I’m the master. Once you accomplished that kind of mind, once you achieve that kind of mind, and have the faith in yourself to master your own domain, you’ll find that you’ll be more successful out here trying to master handling the problem in the society. Any person can't handle himself, he can't handle the world. People out here want to be leaders.

Go and defecate in a refrigerator. Don't even know where the toilet is. You talking about you want to be a leader. Don't know his backside from his front side and want to be a leader. Throw a day old pair of panties on his face and he fall down and pray to the panties. Where can they lead anybody? Give him $30,000 and he scraped his whole program. Just tear it up.
Prophet Muhammad said, "Give me the sun in my right hand and the moon in my left and never will I desert this mission." They boycotted him and his followers, they were hungry and suffering. Many good ones died under the persecution. But Prophet muhammad never gave in. He never said, "Oh I got a chance to be a big rich leader of the Quraysh. That's what they offered him.
"Come back to us, we will make you the leader and give you all the wealth." Isn't that what they said? Prophet Muhammad, said, "No. If you give me the sun in my right and the moon in my left, never will I desert this mission." These people that's out here campaigning for you to nominate them to put them into leadership, all you need and I say it before, is about $30,000, a pair warm panties from some big hips. Money and sex that's all they know, that's their G-D. Money and sex their G-D.
All praise is due to Allah. That he hasn't let all of us go down that drain.
If Allah blessed us, to live around here on this earth for just a few more years or a decade or so you're going to see the surprise of your life. I'm talking to the disbelievers, the doubters, you're going to be shocked out of your senses. You're going to see the teachings of Al-Islam as they are presented by this simple man you're looking at right now. Rise above, all the wisdom of this land.
The wise people are looking at it right now. They are studying it right now. Believe me they've already started using some of it. In time, it's going to replace the whole knowledge. I'm not talking about just here, I mean out there in the city. But if you want to take time? We’re building the human life back again, as it should be built as Allah intended that it be built.
We're making it possible for society to be formed righteous for the first time in the west. For the first time in the west, as a chance for society to be formed in the right way. Firm ground scientific order, you can't see it right now, but you'll come to see it pretty soon. Dear beloved people I could tell you about the forces of trouble in the world but why should I talk about those small things in the face of this big thing?
I can tell you that jobs are scarce, the economy is bad all over the world. Times are not going to get better before they get worse. I can bring you that old doomsday message. I'm not doomed. I see life and victory. Why should I preach to you doomsday message? To tell you that jobs are scarce and they're not going to get any better. That things are bad in the world. America is in for a fall and never will rise again.
Why should I preach something like that? Do I want America to fall and never rise again? If I do, I could be telling you where to go. I don't hear those doomsday preachers telling you where to go. Would I be a true leaders, if I tell you America's falling never to rise again. I don't tell you where to go? America can fall as much as she wants to fall. Allah has given me a hand and a grip to catch it and bring it back up.
All praise is due to Allah. America is falling material. All praise is due to Allah that's the greatest blessing we have had in the United States from within the United States. In the whole history of the United States. The United States begun with people just wanting material comfort. They were working for a material heaven on earth. All praise is due to Allah. America has reached the time. Wherein it's knows, that it can't injoy no material paradise on earth. I thank Allah that jobs are scarce. I thank Allah that business is not booming.
That industry slows down, that's a blessing on America not a curse. At this time in the history of this country, when the spiritually moral system of this country are being shaken and awakened. We don't need the temptation of plenty money on Capital Hill and plenty jobs in the ghetto. We need that temptation away from us until we get our human lives back together.

Those that don't know how to read the sign of Almighty G-D, they think this is a curse on America that jobs are scarce and the economy is grinding down. It's not a curse, it's a great blessing.

It’s forcing people who know nothing but material conflict. Exposing them to accept the fact of reality. That ain't no one fat cat going to live on this Earth, while many cats go lean. If there was plenty money around, brother and sister, America could pacify the agonies of the spirit and the moral in this country. They could pacify the moral and spiritual sores by blinding you with dollars and material comfort.
They could hush up the cry for spiritual and moral dignity in this country with money, and material comfort, but they can't do it now. Ain't enough money around. All praise is due to Allah for blessing America to not have enough dollars, to buy people, and take them away from G-D. They wouldn't do it out of the desire to buy people, and take them away from spiritual and moral growth. They would do it out of a necessity. They would do it because of expedience. They would do it because they were forced to do it.
If they had the money, do you think they would have these conditions in the ghetto? No they wouldn't. Do you think the cities would be deteriorating? No. If they had the money they would build these cities up. If they had the money they would restore the ghetto. If they had the money they would give that brother who wants to preach lies. They would give him money because he can be bought.
Those weak people who feel a little bite now of hard time. Have thought to remember that there was a G-D talked to them once upon a time in their life. If America had enough money, they would take the bite off that brother or sister. He would forget that G-D was once in his life. Allah is the best knower. They don't have enough welfare. Is that right?
If there was enough welfare, I would never be able to get those people to come to the healthy  human development that I'm calling them to. They would be satisfied to be fat birds in a cage. Lay up in the apartment and draw welfare checks. Eat sirloin steak. Buy a lot of little hot mink coat. Alligator shoes. Ride around in a Cadillac, on welfare. The scripture says death in hell, help repair the dead to meet their G-D. After saying that, come wise, one of old.
He saw how G-D, when he get ready to bring about a change, he'll fix everything. That Everything favor the change he wants to bring about. Don't think anything is working against us. Every atom and every particle, every molecule and every atom and every part of the atom in this whole creation is working in our favor.
Even the man that comes out and say that chief can't lead me. I'm going to follow the Honorable Elijah Muhammad. Even that man is a tool to help this word. You know a tool it suffers, but the work progresses. Oh Lord, everything is in the hands of almighty G-D and our enemies will be nothing but tools under the grind. They will suffer but we will progress.
We need to bring the FOI back. Go ahead and bring it back. If that's what you want bring it back. You won't bring it here. You'll get a hundred FOI, and give me 10 brothers that follow what I'm teaching and like and are comfortable with my leadership. My 10 will do more than your 100. I don't care what it is you're talking about doing. Selling papers, selling fish, cleaning up the neighborhood fighting evil forces, marching... karateing. I don't care what it is. My 10 will defeat your 100. Your 100 they're going to be self defeated.
My 10 are going to be together. . I didn't say that as a challenge. I said that in hope to discourage those people. I hope to change their mind. I don't want to see them waste their time. Forming an FOI, because I know the FOI will come to an naught -- will come to a quick end. Time is out for it. If an FOI should be here, it would be right here, right under me.
Don't join anything like that. Don't support it. For yourself, the good of yourself, and your family, and for all of us, stay away from them. Let them do that thing to themselves. You just stay completely away from them. Don't go to their meeting. It'll mean nothing but trouble. If you go to their meetings, you get dissatisfied, they get dissatisfied. You may become angry, they may become angry. There's a clash. Everybody embarrassed. We know where they're saying now. Before I didn't know.
Minister Farrakhan, he embraced me back there, right back here. The last time he was here. These folk here, they say we won't let him talk. We who? It's not me. Every time I see him I invite him to talk. Whenever he's here I tell him to talk. The last time I talked to him, he said he wanted to go back to New York, he thought. I said, "Go back, I'll go with you. And I'll show the New York people that I support you." Not that I thought I needed him in New York but I thought he needed. To get back into something that he liked.
I was going to help him get back into it. He never came back to me and told me anything. He's out there trying to make people feel sorry for him. I'm persecuted like Malcolm was. I'm fallen, I'm going on the same parallel. Lots of people thank me want to kill him, I don't want to kill him. To tell you the truth, some time I want to go to him and ask him, say, "Brother, you haven't told me your financial condition, but if you need any money I got some to share with you." I honestly felt like doing that. Right now, if I thought he was in financial bad condition, that he and his wife and children were suffering financially, if I thought that he would accept it from me, I would gladly offer him some money.
I don't want to see the brother suffer. I want to see him comfortable, but I don't want to see him pampered, like a pimp. There are others, I know they don't have everything they want. If they would come to me, I would give them something, or what I got. Sometimes I don't have nothing to give, but when I got it, I share. I look at him and I wonder, I don't go to him, you know why? Because my mind tells me, say look, if they were really in need, they would sell their Mercedes Benz. They would sell their Marx 4, that 10th pair of alligator shoes that they don't have to be using. Their extra house that they don't have to be having.
No, they don't want me, because I ask them to reduce. Your fat self. Everybody can have a little weight. That's why they don't like me. I tell you, the only reason why these people don't like me is for two reasons. I'm decent and honest. They want to be indecent and dishonest. Pretended like we got some kind of big moral problem over here.
I want to lead the brothers and sisters back to the good life that the Honorable Elijah Muhammad gave us. Brothers and sisters now prostituting. Who are you talking about? Any sister prostituting over here, if I find that out, she's punished.
There ain't no sense to come here and listen to me, week in and week out, with a heart for prostituting. Go on, what are you talking about he's going to clean up? Maybe he's hiding some prostitutes that we haven't seen. That's what I think, I suspect that he got some prostitutes. That he's going to lead. Want to charge me with the weakness and filth that is on them.
When the Honorable Elijah Muhammad was here, we didn't do these things. We didn't drink. We didn't commit adultery, we didn't fornicate, we didn't prostitute ourselves. We didn't use dope. All right, I'm here. I'm preaching against the same things. What is your excuse? Anybody who says they were following the Honorable Elijah Muhammad and they didn't drink, prostitute themselves or use dope, and then just because I come into the leadership and say the Honorable Elijah Muhammad is not the leader of this state, and is not a messenger or not a prophet of G-D, and is certainly not king.
And go back and start prostituting themselves, using dope and drinking whisky, what does that say for me and what does it say for them? It tells us that they never really believed in the Honorable Elijah Muhammad. If they believed in him, they would ignore what I'm saying. If what I'm saying hurt their faith, they would just ignore it. They would say, "I'm not listening to that, I believe in the Honorable Elijah Muhammad." If your G-D is weak enough to be destroyed by my words, you should give up your G-D and come to Allah.
That's exactly what minister Farrakhan, and others with him, are accusing me of. The new teaching has really shaken the faith of the old followers in the Honorable Elijah Muhammad. And made them go back to the same old habits. A faith that was that weak should be shaken. It should be destroyed, don't believe them, that's not the whole story.
When I came into office, I came in fighting prostitution. Fighting dope, dope pushers. They don't tell you that. They don't tell you when the chief took his position, many of us ministers of the Honorable Elijah Muhammad was dope pushers. Pimps and prostitutes of our own sisters. They don't tell you that. That's a fact. I know you're tired, and we have to go home. I'm not going to come out here, I'm not going to come out here again to tell you to look out for Farrakhan, or for Salis, or anybody else. From here on out, you're on your own. If you want to follow them, you're on your own.
I hear that Imam Aziz, minister Aziz, that used to be here, I put him over the region here. I hear that he is Farrakhan's right-hand man. Well, that's okay, I know he never was my right-hand man. I hear that John Muhammad used to be minister in San Francisco. Lived there as a fat pimp off the people. I hear that he is with him. Hear that Jeremiah used to be over Philadelphia, when he spoke. Hear that he is with him. I hear they have Muhammad Ali going like a pendulum, from their side to this side. I just want you to know their names, so you will know how to greet them when you see them. Don't say Assalam Alaikum Brother Jeremiah. If he speak to you say Salaam. Where do I get this from the Holy Qur’an. Prophet muhammad told us that when we meet the ignorant people and they are certainly ignorant by their own decision say to them Salaam. It didn't say say to them Assalam Aleikoum. It says say to them salaam. Asalaam Alaikum Is a greeting to a member of the society you belong to, a brother who believes you believe, and a sister who believes as you believe you say Asalaam Alaikum, but the people who claim to believe but are proven by their own actions that they don't when you meet them just say salaam.
If they say, “Assalam Aleikoum Brother,” say salaam. Don't say brother. How can you be a brother? Salaam. You don't have to say that. You can just ignore them. You don’t have to say a thing, but if the they should show a sign like they  want to greet you say, Salaam, and keep going your way. Don’t get into no discussions. It can lead to nothing but trouble. They say, “Well, now let me explain, brother, what happened.” Salaam, and keep going. They want to explain it they should come down here and explain it to me before all of us.
Now I hear they're coming out in the magazines. Newsweek is preparing a major story on Minister Farrakhan and his his new movement that he’s calling Elijah Muhammad Memorial Society. I wonder did he steal that name from our Elijah Muhammad memorial health facilities. I don't know. Maybe he didn't steal it. He's organizing a movement just to remember Honorable Elijah Muhammad as long as I'm on earth nobody can forget the 
Honorable Elijah Muhammad. I’m his own flesh and blood son.

I'm the man that he wanted to when I was too young to understand myself what was in store for me down the road. He said this man is like Solomon. He said David didn't build the house Solomon built it. He said that at a church on the south side one Saviours Day Convention. Some of you here probably remember that. We might still have the day when he referred to me as Solomon and himself as David.
David was warrior. David was a man who crying in sad songs all the time. Solomon was a kingdom builder. Now, I don't say to you I'm Solomon but he referred to me as Solomon and I am the one who is building behind a man who had many woes and much weeping. I don't say I'm a Solomon I'm not. Solomon was the one who taxed his people heavily and I taxed my people very lightly.


Solomon’s kingdom fell because of heavy taxing and this kingdom shall rise because of reasonable taxing. He said if anybody can prove to him that the Honorable Elijah Muhammad would have chosen me to be the leader that he would throw his hat in right now and follow me. The Honorable Elijah Muhammad told him many times that there is only one that Master Fard told me that he saw there would be a helper and a successor he said and that’s Wallace D Muhammad. 
Minister Farrakhan himself said many times that Wallace D Muhammad was the one always that we thought would become the leader after his father. Many times he said that. Malcolm X in his book in his autobiography he didn’t even hide that.
He said that the Honorable Elijah Muhammad said after 40 years at the age of 40 Wallace Muhammad would come into his leadership. Maybe I’m not giving his exact words, but that’s what the meaning is. That at the age of 40 I would come in my leadership. Read the autobiography on Malcolm X. Malcolm X in his autobiography he said that I was always the one that he and others would come to for advice that was way back then, before the great secrets was opened up to me.
He had Farrakhan as his national spokesmen and he had Sultan Muhammad as his national spokesman before that, in fact many, many years before that. Sultan Muhammad was his national spokesmen. Malcom X was his national spokesmen. Farrakhan was his national spokesmen. Does the vice president always become the President?
When real leadership is needed we don’t want it from a vice president we wanted it from an independent man. Asalaam Aleikum
[02:49:10] [END OF AUDIO]
