01/27/1977
IWDM Study Library
Prophet Muhammad in the Bible 
Chicago

By Imam W. Deen Mohammed
Now, I would like to begin the Khutbah today. Alhamdulillahi rabbil 'alamin. Praise be to Allah, the guardian evolver and sustainer of all the worlds. Him we give our praise. I ask His guidance. I ask His help. I ask forgiveness of Him. I trust in Him and I will not break or separate from Him. I bear witness that there is nothing worthy of worship, except Allah alone. There is nothing like unto Him and I bear witness that Muhammad, is His servant and His messenger. Peace and blessings upon Prophet Muhammad, upon his descendants, upon his companions, upon the righteous servants all of them and upon you oh Muslims. Dear beloved Muslims, people brothers and sisters.
We are a blessed community because we have been invited to Al-Islam. And we have declared ourselves Muslims believing in the message of the Quran that was brought to us by Prophet Muhammad of Arabia about 14 centuries ago. A message that is a message for the total life of the human being. A message that gives guidance for the total life of the human being. Guidance for our physical life, guidance for our rational life, for our minds, guidance for our moral nature, guidance for our spiritual makeup and guidance for our community life. This last and Universal message was revealed to Prophet Muhammad peace and blessings be upon him about 1400 years ago. This message is the answer to the prayers of the prophets. It’s the answer to the prayer of Abraham, it is the answer to the prayer of Jesus the Christ. Jesus said, "Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven."
Thy kingdom come, what is a kingdom? A kingdom is an organized society with a leader over it and with subordinates. A society that has leadership working for its good interest and protecting it. A kingdom is a government, a kingdom is a government. All of the prophets wanted to see a righteous government on the Earth. All of the prophets from the beginning of time wanted to see a righteous government on the earth. And the movement of humanity is a natural movement toward government. It doesn't necessarily have to be a political government. But the organization, orderly organization of your life for progress and for healthy development. Leadership cannot be divorced from Al-Islam, organization cannot be divorced from Al-Islam.
Al-Islam is religion that has brought us the order for society, the order that gives us the right leadership and right organization. As Muslims we have to support leadership, we have to support organization. The world is so designed that if you don't have strong leadership and if you don't believe in a disciplined life in organization, you will be overcome by the forces of the world. It is only those that have strong leadership and have strong organization that survive as a strong body in this world. The rest are floating members in the society, like leaves in the wind. They have no stability; they have no security. They are just given to the winds of circumstances. We as Muslims should realize this and should know that our religion is the completion of that religion that grows in scripture from Adam to Muhammad.
The man Adam he was made upright in his flesh. But he was overcome. And G-d had to mission another behind him. And we have behind him coming Abraham who was upright in his total being. And because he was upright and did not fall victim to the forces of temptation, he is called the leader. An Imam, a leader for all the nations. But prophet Muhammad was the one that Almighty G-d gave the revelations, the guidance to establish that order that all the righteous servants are prophets of G-d were striving for. Jesus, he came and his life was a sign of that order. He spoke of a Kingdom to come and in the New Testament the very last book of the New Testament, we have a symbolic picture of that community that is to come.
I have been asked is Muhammad in the Bible? Yes, he's in the Bible. I have been asked is this religion in the Bible? Yes, it's in the Bible. Just as Jesus is in the Bible. And just as the religion that you profess and its principle and much of its teachings, you can find it in the Bible. But where do we have in the Bible Christianity by name? Nowhere. Where in the Old Testament does it say, "I'm going to send you Jesus by name." Nowhere. It doesn't say in the Old Testament or in the New Testament, G-d is going to send you Muhammad. But it says, “G-d is going to send you another comforter.” And Jesus said, “It is expedient that I go away, for if I do not go away the comforter will not come unto you.” The church has interpreted that in the Holy Ghost. They say Jesus was talking about the Holy Spirit. But the Holy Spirit is not a new thing. The Holy Spirit had come to many before Jesus.
The Holy Spirit came to Jesus, the Holy Spirit came to the followers of Jesus while Jesus was with them, many of them were overcome by the Holy Spirit.
If he says, if the prophecy is to be understood that the Holy Ghost is coming that was nothing new that wasn't another comforter, the people already have that comforter. The Holy Ghost had been coming for a long time. It said, “The Holy Ghost came to Mary and overshadowed Mary.” So that wouldn't be another comforter that would be the same comforter. We wouldn’t have to say another comforter just say the Holy Ghost is coming again.
As the Holy Ghost came to Mary as it came to you, the Holy Ghost is coming again. But it says in the New Testament that G-d will send another comforter. And Jesus said, "When the spirit of truth has come, the spirit of truth will lead you into all truth.” What does this mean? The spirit of truth is coming after Jesus. What does it mean? Another comforter is coming.
It means simply that another prophet is going to be raised. It means simply that G-d's inspiration is going to reach to be given to another prophet. In the Quran and the same for the Bible, the spirit or the Holy Spirit simply means the divine inspiration that G-d bless His messengers with, His prophets with that opens up their breast and their understanding and enable them to receive revelation from Almighty G-d. When G-d says that He's going to bless another one with the spirit of truth, or going to send another Comforter. It means simply He's going to bless another righteous person with divine inspiration.
Jesus, he said, “As long as I'm in the world, I’m the light of the world.” Jesus said, “I have to go away.” And he said, “I go away and you see me no more.” Then again you shall see me, I'm quoting the New Testament scripture. He said, "And then again you shall see me," this is not the Quran. I want to make that clear. I'm not quoting the Quran. I'm quoting the Bible New Testament. He said, "And then again you shall see me." Now, what does this mean? I go away and you see me no more? Can he lie, should he lie, should a prophet lie? If he says, I go away and you see me no more. We have to accept that he goes away and you see him no more. Then he said “Then again, you shall see me.” What does he mean? You see me no more and you shall see me.
The only way to understand this is the right way. That is that you will never see him as those people saw him. They saw him in the body, they saw him in the flesh, they saw him preaching as a man among them. He was telling those people I'm going away; I'm going to die like all men and you will never see me again as a man this person. But then again you shall see me. What does he mean? G-d shall reveal me. These people are going to put out my light, they're going to hide my truth, they’re going to hide me, they're going to misrepresent me and mispresent me to the world. But G-d is going to raise up another one and that one is going to again establish me in my right role and in my right image.
This is the meaning of that. Now you can look for other meanings if you want to. You waste your time, we have found the truth, G-d has guided us to the truth. People say what is Prophet Muhammad? Why do you say he's the last prophet? Does the Bible say this? No, the Bible does not say that. But the Bible says that a certain type has to be established in the end of time. And prophet Muhammad fulfilled that type.
In the end of time, a prophetic type of prophet, a leader has to come, who will not only teach us and inspire us spiritually but will lead us in every walk in every way of life. The people prayed for the light of G-d, for the truth of G-d to come into the whole world and light the whole world up. If our religion is a religion of spiritual leadership then it just lights up us internally. For my spiritual life is within me. And when the church was separated from the state what happened to Christianity? “It became a religion that is supposed to light us within but we are not obligated, we don’t have to live this religion without. I don't have to be Christian in my business, I don't have to be Christian as the president of the United States. I don't have to be Christian as a scientist. I can put my religion aside and do my business.”
You see, this is the attitude of this present world. “I can put my religion aside to do my business” So this is hiding the light under the bushel, isn’t it? The Bible condemns that, says," Let your light be seen, in the world. Take it up on the mountain top." Mountain top means let it shine from the top of the government. Mountain stands for government. Christians know this. Leaders that is, high up leaders. They know this that mountain stands for government. Let your light shine from the mountaintop means let it shine from the government.
The religion should shine from the government leaders, it should shine from the schools, from the colleges, the universities. It should shine from the business, it should shine from political life, industrial life. It should shine from every quarter of the society. And who did that? Muhammad fulfilled that. In Arabia, he taught the religion and that religion radiated from the whole of Arabia, from the bottom to the top. From the farthest border to the other extreme. That light radiated from the whole community.
Everyone in the community was committed to obey G-d. They were subject to be judged by the law of G-d. They weren't allowed to live their religion in privacy and secrecy and do something else in the public. The public officials had to live their religion. Everybody had to live their religion. The business people had to live their religion. The scientists were made scientists because they were inspired by the religion. Al-Islam inspired the revival of the sciences in the people. The Arab people weren't scientists. They were pagans, idolaters, they were ignorant people, they were of the darkest part of the world. But this religion that didn't separate itself, that didn't say the world should be split in half it should be half spiritual and half physical. Or half spiritual and half material, the religion said the world must be one. In the Quran, it says, "G-d made the world and gave the earth all what it needs as sustenance as food for survival as means for its growth in four periods." Then He gave His attention to the heavens and He made the heavens in two periods. Then He said, "Come you together willingly or unwillingly.” And He brought the Heavens and the Earth together. This is the Quran, what does this mean? We get it in the last of the New Testament but we get it in a symbolic picture. In the last of the New Testament, the Book of Revelation, the prophet sees a city coming down from the sky.
Here is the heavenly order coming and meeting the Earth. And the Earth and the heaven is becoming one. And how does this look when it becomes one? When Heaven and Earth unite and become one how does it look?
It looks like the picture that given in Revelation. It looks like New Jerusalem. New Jerusalem was built on equality. It was built on equality according to the measurements given in the New Testament. A Society of equals, a society of Justice where and every member has equal opportunity to grow and equal opportunity to get Justice from the rulers. This is equality but it's more than just a community that guarantees equal protection for everybody and equal opportunity to grow for everybody. It’s a community radiating with light. According to the New Testament says, “the city came down and there was light all throughout the city. Light was radiating from the people. Christ had become light.
What does this mean? It means that Christ whom we have not understood in the last day, he shall be understandable. We shall not look at Christ and see clouds of confusion. We shall look at Him and seek the light of clear understanding. Light means understanding, the Bible says, "Above all get an understanding," Says, "Get knowledge but above all get an understanding." Now, you know many of us have knowledge but don't know what to do with it. Don't know how to defend it. Don't know how to trace its roots, to see how this knowledge was established from the very start.
Many of us, we just get volumes and volumes of knowledge. But because we have been robbed or deprived or just ignorant of understanding, we are still in the dark with all of our knowledge we are in the dark. Knowledge is no more than a figure but if you have understanding then that figure is transformed into light. You see clearly, you understand. The Bible tells us that G-d shall bring understanding. Light is understanding. Where does light come from? It comes from fire. Even the light in the electric bulb it comes from fire. There's a shortage made so that the wire burns but doesn't burn up. The metal is so durable, tungsten, I believe they still use is so durable that it won't burn up.
A shortage is made and the wire become so hot that it burns but doesn't burn up. And that's what we see in the electric bulb. When we look at the Sun, what are we looking at?
We are looking at fire. It's a big ball of fire. Science has taught us that. Light comes from fire. Not to say that light can't come from anything else. G-d has made certain materials in the earth that can radiate light. The lightning bulb, he's not burning but he makes light in the dark. You see so, G-d has done this to show us that yes. This is the way light is made but if I had chosen to, I could have made light without burning. But G-d has done all of these things to awaken us to wake up our mind to shock our senses and to direct those senses to a higher truth.
Fire is burning, we don't want fire, we want the light of fire. But we have to get fire to get the light. When our mental faculties are working, there is a symbolic fire going on in us. But we don't want just that process. We don't just don't want the faculties to work, we want them to produce light.
Once they produce understanding in our mind then we have a light to walk by. Allahu Akbar. Alhamdulillahi rabbil 'alamin. Praise be to Allah the guardian evolver and sustainer of all the worlds. We pray the peace and blessings be upon Muhammad, the last of the prophets and the Seal of the prophets. The universal messenger, the messenger to all the worlds. We pray that peace and blessings forever be upon him upon his descendants, upon his companions upon the righteous servants all of them and upon you oh Muslims.
Dear beloved people we have in our possession, all we need for our salvation. There is no excuse for us anymore. We have the clear truth of the Quran, we have the explanations that unlock the mysteries that baffled and confused this world for thousands of years. We have no excuses anymore. We don't have a religion that condones, suggest or protects any evils. We have a religion that is clearly of plain truth.
It doesn't support any injustices, it doesn't give any help at all to any of the evils that are burdening civilization today or yesterday. The evils of color consciousness, the evils of racism, the evils of slavery and all the other many evils. The evils of moral corruption, the evils of spiritual corruption. All of those things have been put to an end by the clear truth that is revealed in the Quran. There is no excuse. Almighty G-d has blessed us and there is no excuse for us. In the Quran we are told of Muhammad that he is “kaafatan len nas”. That means that this messenger is enough for all the people.
Before him the others fell short of something. The others they led us in physical discipline, in moral discipline. Some let us in spiritual discipline. But none but His last messenger completed that work of the prophets, completed the discipline and gave us discipline for our whole life, none but that prophet. He’s given us discipline for the whole life, the whole society has discipline from the Prophet Muhammad in the form of the Quran that was revealed to him. Dear beloved people, there is no excuse for us. We cannot blame religion now. Saying, “I would be a Muslim but there's a lot of racism in Al-Islam.” There's a lot of lie and hypocrisy in you, there's no racism in Al-Islam. “Oh, I would be a Muslim. But Al-Islam favors Arabs over other people.” No, the favoritism is in your own crooked mind. There is no favoritism in Al-Islam. “Well, it was Prophet Muhammad who came and he charged Arab with being a rebellious people. He charged them. And he said that the Quran was revealed in Arabic?”
Certainly, because it is an expressive language, it's a clear language. “And he said that it was revealed to them.” Certainly. It's justice that it was revealed to them. Because at that time they were the people most in need of G-d's guidance. So, He revealed it to them. It says also in that same Quran that if you fail, G-d says to the Arabs in the Quran that, "If you fail, I'll raise another people who will not fear, who will not fear the criticism of the criticizer. And who will deliver this truth as it should be delivered." G-d says this in the Quran. G-d never says in the Quran that He has any favorites.
It says, “His favorite is the one who carries out best his job for Almighty G-d. He who is most pious, he who is most respectful of G-d and the message that G-d gives us through His Prophet. He who is most upright and most righteous in his life, he who is most dutiful.” This is what the Quran teaches us. Prophet Muhammad has given it in many of his sayings. “That the best of you is the one who is best in his deeds, who's best in his righteous deeds, who's best in his worship of G-d, who's best in his fear of G-d, who's best in his piety, who's best in his righteousness, who's best in the society as a useful person.” It says the one who's most useful in his society. This is what Prophet Muhammad said. The clear truth is in Al-Islam.
Al-Islam for the first time unifies the life of the man, it unifies the life of the woman, unifies the life of the society. It brings the man together with his spirit. The man can live with his mind and spirit together for the first time in Al-Islam. Is this the fulfillment of the prophecy? Yes. It is the fulfillment of prophecy. Because from Genesis to Revelation, the struggle on earth is for the man, the mind, to get together and unite with the spirit so they can become one man, people in mind living as one under G-d in a right to spirit. This is the struggle from Genesis to Revelation. It is Prophet Muhammad, it is Al-Islam that brings us that understanding and makes it possible for us to come together with ourselves, within ourselves. Before we were divided against our very selves within ourselves.
Man looked at his flesh as something that was sinful and shouldn't have been put on him. He looked at his mind as a serpent, as a snake, whispering for the devil. But because of Al-Islam, we understand, certainly, G-d has given you a weak flesh. But he's given you a strong mind to rule that weak flesh. He starts your growth in flesh then he gives you a mind stronger than flesh. So, G-d has not created anything wrong. He created something very beautiful and very good for me. And the Quran says that G-d has created your shape, your form. And He has made your shape and your form beautiful. This is what the Quran says. Look at me, am I ugly? No, I'm not ugly. I am beautiful. G-d could have put all my organs in one spot and I would be constantly smelling bad things.
G-d has separated the things. He had put proper distance between them so I don't have to have breath bad smell while I'm talking. He could have put my eyes in my feet. I would have to strain my eyes always looking up. He put him them here so I can see good on a level. G-d has done everything good in the physical body. He has ordered this physical body in the most excellent way. He has not done anything wrong in my physical body. He has not given me a sex that is wrong, he's given me sex that draws me to a woman. Look, given me a sex that draw me to a woman. And when I come to this woman, I learn how to love. Because if I don't love this woman, she's not going to give me what I want. So, G-d has given me sex so I can learn how to love.
He's given the woman sex so she can learn how to love. Now, it's our fault that we take this sex and abuse it and use it to make each other obey, get obedience from each other. I'm going to make that woman do what I say, I'm going to deprive her of what she wants tonight. The woman says, "I'm going to make that nigga or that man do what I say. I'm going to deprive him of what he wants tonight." G-d has not made it bad; you have taken something good and using it in a bad way.
It is G-d. He said, "I have made you in the best of mold. In the best of mold." The pattern that He made, the human pattern, He says in His Quran that it is the best pattern. It is the best pattern. What better pattern can that be? The Bible says the same thing if you can understand it. If you can fish in the darkness, in the dark clouds of the Bible and find that light, you will understand that the Bible is saying the same thing. That man was made beautiful. Adam was made right. Adam wasn't condemned, the serpent was condemned. And Eve was condemned. What is the serpent? The serpent is your independent use of your rational faculties. The independent use of your rational faculties is a serpent. You have to use those things with respect for truth. You have to use your rational sentence with respect for truth and most of all, with respect for the creator who's G-d.
Now, if you forget about G-d, and if you don't follow the truth and obey the disciplines of the truth, of perfect truth, then your rational faculties are going to throw you in trouble. That's what the Bible is saying when it says the serpent threw Adam and Eve in trouble. The serpent couldn't reach Adam directly, he reached Adam through Eve. What is Eve? Eve is the flesh. The temptations of the flesh weaken the mind that goes wrong and brings that mind down. Soon the man's moral image is brought down. Because of what the serpent did and the weakness of the flesh, the moral image fell down. Where was the problem? Was it in the flesh? No. The flesh was all right, it was just weak. It was not the superior form. The mind was superior to the flesh.
The crooked mind not obeying G-d and not following the disciplines of perfect truth suggested to weak flesh, don't obey G-d. Eat this thing, do this thing. Was the flesh wrong? No, the flesh was helpless. The flesh wasn't wrong, the flesh was helpless. Did G-d make Eve talk to Adam? No. Did G-d make Eve to talk to the serpent? No. Flesh has no power to talk to my mind. Flesh has no power to talk to my moral conscience. I have to speak to my moral conscience. Flesh can only tell me that there's a pain here, there is filth here. I have to tell my moral conscience clean up flesh. Flesh has no moral conscience. Flesh can just transmit pain to the center here and let me know there's pain here. The eyes see its filth here. The message comes filth there. It doesn't say, "Remember, G-d, says no filth." The mind says, "Remember, G-d says no filth. It doesn't say, “remember G-d says help the paining organ.” The mind says G-d says help the paining organ, you see. So, Eve was not at fault. Now the Christian leadership they know that Eve means flesh in the Bible. Don't think they don't know it. They know that Eve means flesh in the Bible. Now if Eve was not the one responsible and the serpent was responsible. And let me tell you something your leadership knows. I'm not talking about your average leader. I'm talking about your Pope, your High Bishop and these high people in religion. They know that the serpent means the rational mind.
The mind that rationalizes to establish false rationale. It is that independent use of your rational faculty, your reasoning by yourself and alone without respect for G-d and without respect for truth. This is the kind of reasoning that is called a serpent in the mind. It is this kind of reasoning that justify wrongdoing, justify sin. Let us never think that flesh is sinful, flesh is good. If you want to know where your real obedient self is, if you want to know where your real G-d-fearing self is, it is in your flesh. Your mind has gone wrong but your flesh still is obedient to G-d.
How can I prove that? I prove it this way, when you eat your flesh tell you, "I got enough," but it is your mind that say "Eat some more." When you sleep your flesh tell you, "I got enough," but you wake up and your mind tell the body, "Get some more rest." Your flesh is obedient to G-d's law. Your flesh says, "I want sex." Your flesh gets enough sex and says, "I got enough." Your mind says, "No, that's not enough. Let's do it upside down. Let's do it around the corner." Your flesh doesn’t tell you to pervert your nature. Your mind tells you to pervert your nature. G-d has given you guidance for your mind. Let us accept it. Be Muslim. Allahu Akbar.


