04/19/1976
IWDM Study Library 
Creation

By Imam W. Deen Mohammed
... in the Qur'an and Arabic language, As-Salamu Alaykum. We know that before 1,400 years ago, before the appearance of Muhammad Abdullah, Ibn Abdullah, the Prophet, Peace be upon him of Arabia, that there was no Islam by that Arabic name, Islam. But those who are wise in the teachings of the Prophets, and especially those who are wise in the teachings of Islam, they know that Islam has no beginning and no ending for human beings. Islam is the natural religion of the human family. And if any society grows in knowledge and understanding, and arrives at truth... To come to Islam, because Islam is truth.
That's what separates Islam from other ideas, or philosophies, or religions, if we can call religions that don't advocate truth religion, then what separates Islam from other religions, other philosophies, and ideas is that Islam is based on truth and it is truth. It is written in the New Testament that Jesus, the Prophet, May Peace be on him, said, "Know ye the truth, and the truth shall make you free." So wherever there's bondage to slavery, oppression, and helpless slavery in the society, then we know that there's an absence of truth in that society, because slavery and truth just can't live together.
So, brothers and sisters, I want you to have patience with us today, and realize that the environment, the teaching environment that we bring you into, or ask you to come into, invite you into to share with us, is an environment much like the natural environment. In fact, it is as natural, or more natural, than the natural environment. In order to benefit from the natural environment, you have to be alive to that natural environment. A man can't go out there in the fresh air with his nose closed and his hand over his mouth, and expect to get the benefit from fresh air. A man can't go out there in the sunlight with his hands over his eyes, and expect to get the benefit from sunlight.
So just as the natural world is out there to feed your being, this teaching environment that we have here is here to feed your real being, that man, that mind in you, both male and female. But you have to open up to it. You have to be natural in it. You have to be alive in it. If you're going to kill yourself, there's nothing we can do for you. But if you want to live, just let yourself relax and be natural, and we guarantee that you'll breathe fresh air here. You'll see sunlight here, and you'll drink pure water here. And as it's written in the scripture, once you drink from our well, brothers and sisters, you don't go thirsty anymore.
Now we want to talk about a few things today. We want to begin with creation, because everything begins with creation that has a beginning. Almighty G-d has no beginning. He, Himself, set creation into motion and brought about the beginning of creation. And then, life manifests out of creation after creation manifests in the heavens, or in the skies, or in the open space. This creation is governed by laws. It's not free. The creation is a slave. It's a slave to the laws that G-d placed over creation. The sun can't change its light. The sun can't change its movement, or its pattern in the heavens. It must follow the same pattern over, and over, and over again, until it passes away. The stars, our planet, Earth, these things are under natural law. They're not free. The plant life that grows out of the Earth, it's not free. It's under a law, and law rules it.
Likewise, for the animals, they're under a law. A law has cut out for them already the life that they have to live. A bird has to be a bird, build its nest, and raise its young as law has designed that that bird should do. And so, it is for all the other animals. Except one animal, and that is the animal they call human being. This human being, he's not under the natural law. Only in his physical being, he's under the natural law. And because of the consequences of him being under the natural law, physically, he's affected by the natural law in his whole life. But he's free, as a person, to rebel, to reject, to rise above the natural law.
There's a natural law that holds everything to the Earth. We call this law the law of gravity. But man did not only rise upon the face of the Earth, and fly upon the air like the bird, he broke the gravity. He broke the pull of the physical Earth by figuring out the speed of the Earth around itself, this motion and whatnot in the solar system, and then making a vehicle on Earth fast enough to break the speed of the Earth's rotation. As a result, the gravity, or the gravitational pull of Earth, was broken by man, and man has managed to get outside of the gravitational pull of Earth. In doing this, man has overcome a natural law. This law that held everything else to the Earth was not throwing up the whole man to the Earth. Man broke it. All Praise is due to Allah.
Be patient. 10 minutes of listening to us is more fruitful and rewarding to your mind, to your intelligence, to your human development than 10 years listening to others.
The creation has its laws, but that Originator of creation did not intend that law should rule His creature forever. When the baby is born, he's born just like a horse, a chicken, or any other animal. The baby is born helpless and dumb, not knowing anything, the baby crawls around, and it takes them longer to get up on his feet than it takes the animal. He's dependent for a long time. G-d, in His great wisdom, is trying to teach this creature humility, humbleness, appreciation, so that when he gets that great prize that the G-d is going to give him, he won't forget that he got it from on high.
But as the book says, "Foolish man, blinded by the appetite exciting things of the physical world, forgets his own make." And in forgetting his own make, how he was made, the lowly thing that he came up from, he consequently forget his maker, and think that he is the maker. It's easier for man to think that he's the maker if he forgets his maker. Why? Because, nothing else in creation is superior to him. He's the G-d of the physical universe. I repeat, he is the G-d of the physical universe. I need to say that for a third time. The human is the G-d of the physical universe. Doesn't G-d mean the Master, the Ruler, the Superior? When we look at the physical universe, can we find something superior to the human being in it? The book says that G-d crowned Its creation with man.
Well, you dry bones are going to come together. They're going to live. They may be dead and lifeless now, but they just can't stay dead under the power of this truth that we have here in the Nation of Islam.
There's a little allegorical teaching in the Holy Qur'an that goes like this. It says, G-d invited all the creations to be free. To be free to rule and govern all the rest of the creation. And all the other creations rejected it, said, "No, I don't want that." And the human being was the only one that accepted. So, since the human being accepted, G-d gave it to the human being.
This creation now, being under law, is an ordered creation, an orderly creation, a peaceful creation. When human beings want to get the sensation of peace, quiet, they look to the heavens on a clear day. Is that right? Now we know sometimes the sky above us is quite disturbed, storms and whatnot, but really, the clouds and the storms are not from out there. They're from here. You'll learn this in time, if you all haven't already learned it. Storms and trouble don't come from out there, here. They come from here and go up there. So when you see that up there, it appears to be peaceful and orderly, and it makes us feel that way. Perhaps you've went out and sat on a quiet evening, night, and darkness falls, and looked up at the stars on a clear night. And perhaps you saw the moon and perhaps you felt or experienced what we're talking about. That order appears up there, because there's laws up there. "Oh, this man is synthesizing law." Well, just stay here and listen.
First there's creation, then there's freedom. Creation falls under law. Freedom comes and creation can break law, can escape laws. Why? How is creation able to escape the law of creation that holds creation down, or holds creation in check? That law that holds the sun in check is the law that the human being has ruled, or broken, and mastered. Do you know that? Gravity holds the Earth in check, and gravity holds the sun in check, and man has broken gravity. So, the man has been able to escape creation, because he has come in contact with something superior to creation. What did he come in contact with that was superior to creation? It was the knowledge of creation. The knowledge of creation, enables you to master the creation. Knowing the nature, the power, being able to identify the power, and then knowing the nature of those powers, gives man a superior knowledge over the creation. And he then can break laws, can escape the gravitational pull, and whatnot, that he was, before, under and helplessly under.
So, we see in this victory of the human being, of the mind, a message from the Creator. That message is that He didn't intend for man, for human beings, to be ruled by law. That's why, when Jesus came, he began to interpret the wisdom of G-d that had been given to Prophets before his time. Remember, Jesus didn't come with any new religion. Jesus preached the same religion that the other Prophets preached. Jesus didn't claim to have any new G-d, and new revelation of religion. Jesus had the same law, the same spirit of religion, the same righteous teachings that all the other Prophets had. And when he spoke, most of the words that came from his mouth was words that had already been written in the Old Testament. In fact, he hardly ever would speak unless he would verify it by saying, "You have read in the Prophecy," or, "You have read in the laws." Unless you want to be a disbeliever. There's nothing I can say or do to make you a believer.
The Bible tells you that man is redeemed by his own faith. So, you have to save yourself. All we can do is tell you what can save you, and it's up to you to grab it and save yourself. "Oh, but Jesus saved people." Read it again, brother. Jesus said, "Go away. Your faith has saved you." Your faith has saved you, not my faith has saved you. You have to have some faith yourself. And even after being successful with a few, that he performed miracles on, and he never performed a miracle without giving G-d the credit for it, even being successful in performing those miracles, he still pointed to the weakness of miracles. He didn't teach us to believe in miracles. He taught us to believe in truth. Among those that were cured, some turned back right away before they even got out, in spite of Jesus.
Jesus was telling them that, though the power's in the Word to convert, and it can change a person, but that change may be temporary. It's up to the person to stick with what they've got. So, Jesus said, "I did not come to destroy the law, but to fulfill." We say the same thing today. Laws are necessary. They are necessary steps in the development of people. But once you are born out of the womb of law, then you can stand up and look down on law, just as man rises up from this thing called gravity and look down on that law that once held him. So likewise, when we are born out of the body of law, we're able to look down on those laws and write new laws superior to them, or ignore them altogether. "Oh, can you ignore a law?" Certainly, I can ignore a law.
If you travel a certain route so long, and know exactly where every stop sign is, and every red light is, they can take down those stop signs and red lights tonight, and tomorrow you can stop just the way you've been stopping all the time, without having the law there before your eyes telling you when and where to stop. Why? Because, you have learned the law. You have gotten the law of habit into yourself, and you don't need any signs anymore, or any written commandments telling you what to do. You are law in your own being.
So, we are a people born out of dream, and our real identity is seen in our mind's nature, and mind makeup. That's where the person is seen, not in his flesh makeup. And we come under law just as flesh, and all the creation comes under law, and we develop higher and higher in wisdom and knowledge and understanding of the physical world. And this development is brought about, because of a reasoning process in our mind. We're able to reason and weigh this with that, take the better and push aside the worse. Take the light and reject the darkness. Take sense and reject foolishness. Because we're given this reasoning, or rational process, in our mind, we're able to move up, high and higher, and finally, eventually break the pull of gravity, and then stand back and look on the law and think, "I'll write a new one better."
So Holy Qur'an says, "Any law that we wish to get rid of, or to alter, or to exchange for a better one, We do it." Why? Because law wasn't meant to rule us; we were made to rule both creation and law. "Oh, well, what should rule you then, Mr. Mohammed?" Truth should rule me. Truth liberates you, then you should be grateful to truth for liberating you and respond to truth, obey truth, submit to truth, and G-d is the strongest truth there is. So I greet you now with the greetings of peace, the greetings of every Prophet, As-Salaamu Alaykum.
Speaker 2:
You've been listening to the chief minister of the Nation of Islam, the honorable WD Mohammed, speaking to you from Chicago, Illinois.
Speaker 2:
Bilalian News. Bilalian News. Bilalian News.
IWDM:
Bilal was an outstanding man in the history of Islam. Bilal became the first muezzin and the first Minister of Prophet Muhammad, May peace be upon him. And this man was a black, so-called African. He was so sincere, his soul was so pure, that Prophet Muhammad and the other leaders under him addressed this man, Master Bilal.
Speaker 2:
Bilalian News, the newspaper that's dedicated to truth and justice for all people of the Earth. Bilalian News, your newspaper that's factual, timely, and essential. Bilalian News covers the four corners of the Earth with topics that are vital to the world and to the community. Get Bilalian News at your news stands, or through your Bilalian News representative. G-


