1975-July-25

Muhammad Speaks

A Growth Note: 
The Church

W.D. Muhammad


Almighty God has placed a heavy responsibility on me and you, Brother and Sister. We are going to do this job and we are not going to back up one day. The enemy we are killing is devil tricknology and devil religious psychology. It is killing them to see their tools exposed and crumbling.

The life of the church has grown so weak that now it survives mostly on the strength of tambourines, singing, and dancing. When they see the bright Light of Truth of Divine Mind coming out, some of them are going to get that second wind. You know, sometimes a man struggles harder in death than he struggles in life.

In that dying death they are going to show their hatred and opposition to righteousness. They are going to come out with all kinds of false, ugly, and shameful accusations. They are going to accuse me of being anti-Christ. But Allah has given me the power of Truth to prove (not accuse) them to be "the" anti-Christ.

They are going  to start going  on  missions making a lot of church noise trying to capture the people with music and song. There is going to be more singing, more tambourining, more horn blowing, and more drum beating than you've ever heard in your life. Let them make their noise; we are going to be victorious against all their opposition. Their little noise is going to be divinely quieted and they are going to be made to look very silly and shameful.

Many, many people of the church are going to submit and bear witness that we have the truth from Almighty God. But a few of the diehards are going to put up a fierce last battle to keep falsehood over the people.
I want you to remember, brother and sister, that you are not fighting the church. You are fighting Satan and white supremacy. We have the wisdom and the power to call the entire world to submission to the Lord of The Worlds.
This is the day that the Church will give up the old rugged cross of falsehood and submit to wear the starry Crown of Islam (Truth).

