06/13/1976
IWDM Study Library 
A New Heaven and A New Earth PT.2

By Imam W. Deen Mohammed
Mr. Muhammad Speaks, the program that's dedicated to truth and justice for all people of the earth. And now we present to you with great honor the Chief Minister of the Nation of Islam. The Honorable WD Muhammad.
Audhu Bilahi Minashaitan Ar Rajeem. Bismillah Ar Rahma Nir Raheem. Alhamduillahi Raabil Al Amin, Ar Rahma Nir Raheem. Malik Yaum Id Deen. Iyaka Na Budu Wa Iyaka Nastain. Ihdina Siratal Mustaqeem. Siratal Ladheena An Amta Alahim Gharil Magdoobi Alahim Wa lad Daleen.
Ameen
I seek refuge with Allah from the rejected enemy. In the Name of G-d, Most Gracious, Most Merciful. Praise be to G-d, the Cherisher and Sustainer of the Worlds. Most Gracious, Most Merciful Master of the day of judgment. Thee do we worship and thine aid we seek. Show us the straight way, the way of those on whom thou has bestowed Thy grace. Those whose portion is not wrath and who go not astray. Ameen. We greet our honorable radio audience today with the greetings of all the Prophets from Abraham to Muhammad. The greetings of peace in the Qur'an and Arabic language are As Saalam-Alaikum.
Now we know that light is the reflection of something. Is that right? Light is a reflection or it is a manifestation of the presence of fire. We have light out there today because the sun is shining, but the sun cannot be touched with your hand as you can touch that light. For the sun is a ball of fire. Is that right?
All right. The sun is a ball of fire. So, in the beginning G-d said, "Let there be light, let there be the manifestation of truth. Let there be the signs of truth". And G-d wanted to bring that truth home to the people. He didn't want it to remain just light, He wanted that light to grow into its real body. He wanted it to make its presence real among the people.
I hope you follow what I'm saying here. All right. So, the book tells us that G-d is coming and we have been looking for a physical person or for a personality. When we should have been looking for a mentality.
A man's mentality is what puts him in hell. And a man's mentality is what puts him in heaven. Do you understand that? All right. We have been looking for persons personalities when we should have been looking for a mentality. A mentality that is of G-d's likeness or the likeness of G-d is a mentality that reveals the presence of G-d in the body. Do you understand? We have misunderstood the coming of G-d. Christians have been preaching the coming of G-d, others have been preaching the coming of G-d and we have thought that this is the coming of a particular person. All that this is the coming of a particular personality. No. It is the coming of a particular type or a certain type of mind.
It was a mind that put the world on the wrong path. It was the mind of the serpent that put the world on the wrong path. The serpent had no power but it's mind. The serpent whispered his seductive words into the body of Eve. And Eve being nothing but flesh of the human being and those powers that are bound by the flesh. Eve submitted and the flesh got weaker and weaker, and Adam didn't get any more light.
So his light grew to them to keep Eve in the dark and Eve grew too heavy for him to hold up in the little light that he still had. So, they both fell down into darkness. But it was because of the wisdom. It was because of the mind of the serpent, the mind of Satan going out of him and into the body of Eve and into Adam. Is that right? And the society caused that. The biting or the eating of the apple. Well, there's no apples in the world that harmful. You can forget about apples. Start thinking about mentalities.
Let there be light. This is the Genesis. This is the beginning. We need light to get started. The first degree of knowledge we get is like light. But the more knowledge we get, the more that light becomes fire. Knowledge lights the world, but fire can break down the world. It can destroy the world. Is that right? The book says, "That the beast in the end of the world is seen in the lake". In that sweet water, the sugar diabetes interpretation of scripture. So, the beast is seen in that sweet water.
And the Bible says revelation in the end of the book that that beast was seen going down in a lake of fire. So, G-d is going to consume the adversary. He's going to burn up the beast who grew from a word to a snake, from a snake to a serpent, a dragon, and from a dragon to a Great beast. He says, "He's going to consume him, He's going to burn him up in the lake of fire". Now let's go back now and look again at the world how it is made. There is a fire above, we call it the sun and there's water below which is descriptive of the human nature. Human nature in its original form tends to stay down to the earth. We are satisfied with the food, with the clothes and the shelter that we get out of the earth. But there is a kind of mind that is not satisfied with this. Food, clothing and shelter and a happy social life on the ground is not enough for it.
It wants to rise up as a separate and different creation from other people. That's the devil's mind, that devil mentality. It wants to make itself a separate creation. "No, I wasn't created like you. I'm made different from you. Your limitations are not my limitations. I can ascend to the heavens. You are earthly". This is the devil's mind. Is that right? Water tends to stay on the ground. Now water will rise, but it rises when it's touched by the heat of the light or by the heat of the sun. Then it responds to the heavenly light and it rises up from the ground in the form of a light mist and collects in the higher regions as clouds and then lightning flash into those clouds. Fire flash into those clouds and bring about the right conditions, perform water drops again and the water still want to be on earth. It comes falling right back down to the ground once it gets its purification.
This is the nature of natural human beings. But the unnatural being, he likes to climb up to heaven and stay up there. So, the book says, "G-d is going to make a new heaven and a new earth. Because someone has gotten up there that shouldn't be there. So, I have to make a new heaven and when I do that, I'll also have to make a new earth because that one that got up there, he also formed the earth below him. So, I'm going to have to kill him and kill his works. I'm going to have to remove the heaven and remove the earth. We've been preaching about going to heaven. "Oh, if I just can see the other side of Jordan, if I just can get over yonder." And right in your book, G-d says, "He's going to make a new heaven." Why have you been praying and hoping to go to heaven? The heaven that you have known is the old heaven. You don't want to go there.
We see in the natural workings of creation that fire and water work together. Fire in the heavenly higher regions work to bring the pure water back down to us. Is that right? So, we don't have any problem in the natural world. Fire work to bring water and water work to bring certain temperatures and the water with the land and the fire, all work to bring about winds, and the winds also serve the divine plan. They carry rain from a watered region to a dry region. Is that right? Everything in the heavens work together. Now there's some destruction, there is some violence in the heavens occasionally, but if there was no violence in the heaven occasionally, then weak things would remain weak. When G-d send a strong wind along and knock down vegetation, herbage and trees, He's preparing that particular spot for a stronger life.
But when He break off, when He send the strong wind in and knock off the rotten limbs, break down the weak trees, then that that will bear seed for the next season will be strong seed. So, G-d tears down the we so that tomorrow we'll be strong. And these saying verse these lives of human beings. We suffer the loss of a loved one. We suffer the loss of property. We suffer hatred, we suffer threats on our physical life. We suffer hell. A hell, a pure hell, a middle state in this world that is hell. We suffer that. But with these storms, with these windstorms, G-d is knocking down the weakness in ourselves. He's knocking down the rotten timber in our own form and leaving standing in us only that that is strong so that the next baby will come from a stronger body than the one came from today.
So, understand these things in the workings of G-d. G-d has not created anything bad, but it has been this mind, this wicked grafted mind, this false mind that has led us to think that everything got to be either sweet or bitter. Made us to think that there's only sugar and salt in the world. Now this world is a world of sugar and salt. With the sugar and salt problem, but that's not G-d's world. In this world of many things. There is sweet, there's salt, there's sour, there is spices and fragrances and many, many, many things. Is that right? Sugar and salt only represent extremes and extremes are bad. G-d didn't want the extremes for us. G-d wanted balance for us. Is that right? And the Holy Qur'an says, "Do not tilt the balance". Don't go off in the sugar diabetes. And don't suck allum your life. Your mouth will draw up and you won't be able to speak to people. Today I want you to know and everybody to know who is concerned.
That our only interest in the Lost Found Nation of Islam in the West is the interest in truth. We live for truth and we die for truth. We don't live for Africans. We live for truth. We don't live for Europeans. We live for truth. We don't live for the rich or for wealth. We live for truth. We don't live for the poor. We live for truth. This world has been set against itself because people have strayed from truth. Says there was seven crowns on seven heads. Now we know seven represent a completion, a complete cycle. And that complete cycle is the divine cycle. Its number is seven. And the book says, "That there was seven crowns on the seven heads", but there came up another beast. Didn't say that this church was free and holy and righteous now. It had already come under the beast, but it hadn't reached the degree of materialism that it was going to come into. And the book says, "That the second beast came up and gave power to the first". And it says that, "The beast came up with 10 horns and with crowns on each horn". So, we have seven representing the divine number.
And 10 representing the worldly number. In the common world you know we have 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10. But in the spiritual world we have 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7. And that's when we run at a completion. Is that right? All right. So, he takes the crown off of the divine truth and he puts it on worldly ideas and give the power of the religion to materialism. The book says, "There's going to be a new heaven in a new earth". G-d is going to bring the earth and put it in the place where heaven was. And when the earth get in heaven's seat, it's going to do justice to earth because it knows the hunger that is in earth because it was earth itself. Do you understand? All right. The religious leadership has failed the world.
Not the government, not politics, not science. The religious leadership has failed the world. Science has given us more materials than we can use.
Politics has given us more government than we need, but religion has given us nothing but a bunch of broke wind. Now, I'm not speaking against you. I'm speaking against that that gave birth to you.
Let's look at the scripture and see the responsibilities that is placed upon the religious leadership. G-d didn't leave it to worldly men to defend the rights of the poor. He sent religious teachers to defend the rights of the poor.
G-d didn't leave it to the world to give the people some kind of compensation for their labor. He didn't leave it to the world to do that. He sent religious leaders to teach charity. But as a man is not justly compensated for his labor, then the religious leadership is to go out and speak for him and encourage charity among those who are denying him his paycheck. Is that right? This is the religious leadership. But our world, the religious world, until today, we are changing now not only the Lost Found Nation of Islam, there's many live forces in the new world life that are coming together.
The nation of Islam is just out in the forefront on top of the world. And I repeat, we are out in the forefront. We are on top of the world. But many healthy, good elements have been working together to bring about an end of the old world and the bringing in of the ushering of the new world. We would like to see taxes take care of the problems. We would like to see the next President solve the problems of this, of busing and discrimination, racism.
Where are you Pope? The West has been more in the Pope's hand than it has been in the hands of anybody else. So, I asked, "Where are you Pope"? If you are going to let this world pick worldly leaders and wait for worldly leaders to do the things for them that you have on your own shoulders, that's your burden. Then I ask, "Where is the Pope? Imam, where are you"?
Rabbi. It's time for you to pick up the Gospel again and preach again. Come out of your hiding place. The world needs divine men. The world needs men that are taught that their first duty is to serve the needs of the hungering and of the poor.
The world needs G-d's men. Men that understand how the world was made. Men that understand how a human being is born out of dust and clay. The world needs men that are divine who understand how G-d raised mountains up on the earth. Not the mountains that these mountain climbers climb, but the mountains of material power. The mountains of scientific knowledge. These are the mountains that grow up on the world and look over the valleys and rule from above.
Divine men know how these mountains were raised up. They know how to pray to G-d and how to make it rain and how to make that rain wash down the size of the mountains and corrode the size of the mountains and send that material wealth back down in the valley so the valley will have some of it. So, I asked, "Where is the leadership"? I'll tell you where it is. It's right here on this platform. That's where the world religious leadership is. Those who stayed in their churches today, stayed in the dens of darkness. The dens of Satan, those who stayed in their synagogues today stayed in the dens of Satan.
Those who stayed in their mosque today stayed in the dens of Satan. I'm not saying you are Satan, but if you stayed there, it is the darkness that's still there in your house that holds you more than the light that's in your house. And the darkness of your Christianity holds you more than the light of Jesus, then you are in the den of Satan. If the darkness of your Judaism holds you more than the light of your Israel, then you are in the den of Satan.
And likewise, if the darkness of you Islam holds you more than the light of the Qur'an, than you're in den of Satan. What does the book say? What did Jesus demonstrate to his disciples? And I'm getting ready to leave you in just a few more minutes. What did Jesus say to his disciples? Jesus said, "Wash your feet. Wash each other's feet". He didn't teach to wash hands. Jesus taught to wash feet. It is normal for a man to take care of a washing of his hands because the hands have to feed your own mouth. So, we take care to see that our hands are not too filthy. We are concerned about our hands, But our feet gather filth and we are not too concerned. So, Jesus is telling us there to wash your feet.
The world has been worrying about his hands and his feet have rotted off almost. So, it's time for us to wash each other's feet. We have to wash each other's feet because feet are farther away from you than your hands. It's kind of hard to pick that foot up and wash it. Even if you are in the bathtub, it's difficult to grab that foot and wash it. It's easy to wash the hand. So, since it's so hard, we have to help each other and Peace be unto you. As Salam Alaikum.
Speaker 2:
The Honorable, Iman Warith Deen Muhammad, the Chief Minister of the Nation of Islam.
Speaker 1:
You've been listening to the Chief Minister of the Nation of Islam, the Honorable Warith Deen Muhammad, speaking to you from Chicago, Illinois.
Speaker 2:
Bilalian News.
IWDM:
"Bilal is an outstanding man in the history of Islam. Bilal became the first muezzin, the first minister of Prophet Muhammad, may Peace be Upon him. And this man was a black so called African. He was so sincere. His soul was so pure that Prophet Muhammad and the other leaders under him addressed this man 'Master Bilal'".
Speaker 1:
Bilalian News, the newspaper that's dedicated to truth and justice for all people of the Earth. Bilalian News, your newspaper, that's factual, timely, and essential. Bilalian News covers the four corners of the earth with topics that are vital to the world and to the community. Get Bilalian News at your news stands or through your Bilalian News representative. Good news, all news, Bilalian News. Tune in next week and every week at the same time over this special network of stations for the National broadcast of Mr. Muhammad Speaks. Thank you for listening.



