01/18/1975
IWDM Study Library
FOI Class NYC
Pt. 5

By Imam W. Deen Mohammed
He wouldn’t get the beautiful coat of Joseph. The light skin brother, he complements the dark skin brother. The dark skin brother compliments the light skin brother. None of us are so light. None of our skin are so thin. That boils are popping up. That blood is escaping bursting through the vessel, we are not premature.
All of us are naturally born. We all have strong skin. Our leader himself has a light skin. Not the extremely light. We have some brothers among us that look like Rav Bunche. We can't tell him from the cavy, hardly. In fact, we have to look at him good before we put his name on the roll. We have to search him you know, but if we can find just an atom of evidence in his physical description that he has this blood in him, then he deserves an equal share in the glory of this nation.
Because they didn't say a jet-black man is a nigger, they said all people with that blood in them are niggers. If we share the burden equally if we had an equal share of this evil, cruel false burden. Then shouldn't we have equal share in the glory of the Nation of Islam? Now I'm going to leave you with this. When we talk about the original black man certainly, we're talking about the black skinned people. Certainly, we're talking about that, but we are taking about something that goes deeper than that.
We're talking about something that's more important, more significant than that, and what is that? We are talking about the original mind and thank you, brother minister, he knows, he himself is a minister. He's been working with the symbolic or the mathematical theology for many years. All he needs is a little hit and he put the mathematics together and come up with the answer to those symbols and signs. That's right? All right.
When we're talking about the original black man we're talking about the original mind. Isn't the mind originally in darkness, and it comes out into the physical world and it's turned on to the light of the world. With the light of the world it produced a greater light to make the world’s light look like shadow. But that mind originally is born in a womb of darkness so it is the original black man or the original black mind.
Now, as for our physical blackness, brother, its time to tell you this. The Honorable Elijah Muhammad speaks that the color of the universe is the color of the sun. The sun has in it the basic colors. We see these colors revealed in a rainbow. These colors when they are put into different composition make up all the colors, we see except what we call pure light and darkness, which are not colors at all. Pure light is the blending of all the other colors into one canceling out each other, so that nothing is seen, but pure or invisible light. We only see light, because of its intensity and because of its reflection on the particles of matter in the atmosphere. Excuse me please, I have a little cold, but I feel mighty, mighty good.
Black or darkness is these colors being absorbed and when they're absorbed, they also cancel each other out. The difference is one is cancelled out by absorption, the other one is cancelled out by reflection. The reflect and blend into one and cancel each other out, or they are absorbed and blend into one and cancel each other out. We don't call black a color. Black, we refer to it as original. We don't call white a color, because it is also a reflection of the original. Isn't it beautiful?
It is the original reflected. We don't call these colors. The colors exist in the six colors of the rainbow. They give them as eight I think, but the two extremes are only intensities of the those at the end the extremes in the rainbow, on the two extremes on the rainbow. Like ultraviolet and infrared, but when you count them they're only six. Infrared is just red, ultraviolet is the only violet, it just names the degree or the intensity of it. Now, all right.
If we have the original man's identity pinpointed in the mind that has its origins in darkness then this is an understanding, this is a knowledge that can carry us for generation after generation for eternity. This is an understanding that can carry around the world in low quarters and high quarters. But if we speak of the original man as black skin that can't carry us around the world, that can't carry us into the future eternally. Why? Simply because they are apes with black faces, is he an original man? Because he has a black face?
There are black snakes, is he original simply because he's black? When we're talking about original, we're not really talking about the physical color, brother, but this physical color is original in a symbolic sense. What do we mean? We mean that the Caucasian took on a grafted idea and a grafted mentality. That grafted mentality made him a man out of original, not original. The black man was never taken out of that. He never accepted this false notion about light in the world. I hope you understand what I'm saying?
He never thought of himself as a human being and other people as subhuman. His mind was never messed up like that. He never thought of himself as the only people who could get revelation from a divine being. He never put himself in book and left out other people. He was never bothered with the grafted mind. Although he was ignorant and deprived of correct knowledge, he was never a grafted man. I'm not changing anything. Don't think I'm changing anything, I'm just turning another page on the same old thing.
All right, now. We are a symbol in our color, physical color. We are symbol of the original man, because this color separates us from the grafted man. It identifies us, it distinguish us from the grafted man. We can say that even the black physical man, black is original. Not because that black skin made the original mind, the original mind was the thought of black skin, but that black skin is worn by the original mind to identify him, the original man.
Now can we go about singling out those who are original and those who are not. I give you the words of Honorable Elijah Muhammad, he says, “your people are not qualified to point out who is original and who is not”. He says” they'll be killing their own people and won't know it”, what does that tell us? That although the pale skin is the symbol or the identification upon the grafted man, it's not a blanket thing to use or to go upon. Because the Master Farad himself came in that guise, or in that physical look, but he was a brother, is that right?
In fact, he was more than a brother. He stepped back a bit and called us uncle. He said my uncle, the uncle of Master W D Farad called us his uncle. All right, what does that mean? My nephew is the son of my brother. What he was telling us, though I look pale and look like your enemy, but my father is the father of your brother. Meaning that I'm from the world of Islam, and your father came from the world of Islam. Your fathers are the brothers of my father. Don't look at my skin, look at my message, look at my angelic mission and you will see a brother.
He referred to himself as uncle and brother. All right, so now that we have been brought into the tree of divine mind. It started with the angel coming turning on the mind of Honorable Elijah Muhammad and pouring in the divine mind. Then he poured it into others. As he poured it into others the tree began to branch out. Now we have thousands and thousands branching out in this mind.
If you accept the teachings of the Honorable Elijah Muhammad, if your desire is to see the desires of the Nation of Islam fulfilled or realized, and if you are living with that desire daily, and if you are sacrificing for that desire daily, and if you're will is strong to keep you in that desire, then you are in the tree of the divine mind that is established to branch out all over this world. We have one body, because we have one mind. Whatever organ you are in the body be proud, because the whole is equal to the sum of all of its part.
This whole body will command these legs and these feet to walk this whole body to the hospital or to the clinic to take care of an injury or one thumb or one finger. If there is a pain in the side, if there's trouble with the bladder, if there's a pain in the knee, if there's a corn on the toe, if there's a hair not coming out right and it's causing pain, the whole body will walk, the legs will take the whole body to a clinic. That's how we have to be. We don't want anything less than that, brother. We don't want anything less than that.
We hadn't been given this divine teaching. Believe it or not, we can go in any church. We can teach the priest, the rabbi. We can keep teach the Mufti. We can teach the Imam. We can teach the king of Mecca; the holy Quran and we can teach the Christian world the New Testament. We can teach the Judaic world the Old Testament and they would bow down and say that is a divine mind speaking. I'm telling you what we can do.
You don't know how big, you don't know how big this body you're in. You don't know how big it is, brother. Take it from me, it is a giant. It's so big until it fulfills the saying in the book that, “the stars became the crown on his head.” The giant grew up so high until the stars was nothing, but jewels around the head. The sunlight was nothing, but a garment, a robe around this body. We are not talking about physical body, we're talking about divine mind. We are here forever, As salam Alaikum.

Crowd: Long live Muhammad. 
IWDM: Don’t worry about a thing, we are going to do it together.
Minister Farrakhan: Brothers have a sit just one minute, please. I know I didn't even have to ask you that. All praises due to Allah for the Honorable Elijah Muhammad and we thank the Honorable Elijah Muhammad for his son. My dear brothers, we are going to have to leave you, but I just wanted to say, don't be afraid to reach out for new knowledge. Don't be like the worm that's afraid of the light and wants to keep his head in the darkness. Allah’s messenger has permitted his son to come and I'm so happy that Minister Mohammed felt so at home and that we were blessed.
Go now and think about what he said, bask in it, turn it over and over. As he said, it will take some of the bands off of the brain, free up your thinking, and we will walk happier, brighter, and be a better Muslim and better followers of the Honorable Elijah Muhammad. I thank you Minister Muhammad. Thank you, on behalf of every Muslim. Thank you.
I'm going to try and ask him if he will stay and preach us tomorrow. I don't want him to just teach us. We want to turn the radio on and tell them at the station, “Don't cut this off. Let our brothers teach the city. Let our brother teach the world. Let our brother glorify the Father that made it.”
I don’t have to tell you in words why I was happy when he returned. I told the laborers, it was Thursday night, "I didn’t know you were coming." I was talking to them about Minister Mohammed for about 40 minutes. When I went to Chicago, my mind was troubling, my spirit was down. I talked to him, I think we were together, maybe about an hour or so. When I came back, I felt renewed. Like he said, when the doctors operating you may not. He’s operating on such a high level, you don't see what's happening.
I bear witness, I didn't see what was happening, but I felt it. I'm very proud this afternoon of our brother and thankful to Allah for him. If I don't do nothing in my life again, but to tell you and others, like us, to listen to him, then that'll be the rest of my life. Just telling people to listen to the son of Honorable Elijah Muhammad, because he has what it will take to bring about that which messenger Muhammad envisions for us all. I say, we all must listen and cast all our ideas when they clash with facts. We are happy this day. I'm telling you, I feel like I could jump up. I don’t know what, brother.

Now, you know. Let the word go forth. Tell the others who are not the FOI, what they missed. If we can prevail upon Minister Mohammed, beg him, plead with him to be with us and I say this. Let’s load up the temple. We will have temple in other boroughs, because we don't only want to hear him, we want to see him. Bring your families out. Let them meet Minister Mohammed. Tell the dead, fill it up with the dead. It’s time that they know Elijah Muhammad, 1975.

All praise is due to Allah. Yes, sir.

All right, brother I don’t want to shout no more. I’ve been sneaking up on these things I just didn’t know how to go after. My brother’s here now. I thank Allah, I’m so happy and I hope you are happy. I know you're happy. We have to go now and I hope you'll pardon us. Brothers, I would that every one of you, coming and take Minister Mohammed and just to meet him, look in his face. We have to go across the water to a labors meeting and so if you will excuse us. Then maybe tomorrow, we'll all have a chance.
Maybe, because I don't know what tomorrow, he knows it better than I. I'm telling you, I will carry this man's bag all over the country and all over the world. You know when you met. Well, all praises due to Allah, but I know one thing I'm learning here. If I could just say this to you, "You know in this world, you learn that every man has a place, as he said. As long as we get in our place and don't get out of our place, we function well. This is the one. You don’t make no mistake about it.
This is the one that the Father have been waiting on, looking for to help him in his mission. The rest of us would stand in, just to fill up a boy, until he came forward. Now, he’s here and we will step back and take our place behind him, as he takes his place behind his father. One thing we want, we want the success of a nation. We are not looking for no self-aggrandizement. G-d made this man and if you didn’t hear and see it, you are dead. I see and I hear and I got to bow of what I see and hear is superior and supreme.
We all would be wise to pick up what he has laid down for us and go on and help Messenger Muhammad with every atom of strength that we have to build this new world government. I thank you for receiving our brothers, so beautifully. I would ask you let us give him one more rousing applause. Thank you.

IWDM: Once more, let me say thank you brother, Minister Farrakhan. But I want you to know that we all have qualities and talent that makes us stand out. Those are the qualities or talents that show us in certain areas to be just above another brother. But there's always something the other brother has, too that makes him stand out over the other brother. We have here in number seven, a great minister.
You don't have to tell me about him, because I've been knowing him for a long time. You could tell me something about him maybe, but I think I can tell you more about him than you can tell me. I know him, he's a great man, he’s a natural minister.

