02/26/1975
IWDM Study Library
Savior’s Day
Pt. 3

By Imam W. Deen Mohammed
The white man's mind has filled the atmosphere around the globe. It was impossible for the subject of white mentality to come up with something new. But G-d himself, the eternal and ever watchful, He knew that the world had got out of order and that a grafted, strange mind was controlling things. He came out, He said, "I'm going to come out hiding, not as a mystery G-d, but as a natural G-d coming on time because this mind has covered the Earth. It has fulfilled the privilege, the freedom, the right that was given to it by the divine being. That is, if you want to challenge the divine being, if you want to challenge truth, if you want to prove yourself powerful enough to undo G-d's natural creation, all right you have the freedom, the way is open. But when you would have gone all over the world and done your thing, then I will come and manifest myself and undo your thing, and through myself, the G-d, and there is no G-d beside me."

All praises is due to Allah. The Honorable Elijah Muhammad says the trouble with the world of religious people is this. You follow those that scheme to undo the religious power. You follow those that scheme to take the power of G-d out of the people so that they could put the power of themselves in the people and rule the world. The Honorable Elijah Muhammad has taught us that we have followed and listened to a religious world that could only read print in the Bible, but could not read words and sentences and paragraphs.
He has told us that we have followed a religious world that have given their voice to scripturalism and know little at all about interpretation.
When you hear a preacher read the Genesis and tell you that Adam was a flesh and blood man formed from physical clay out of the earth, the kind that your children play with, you are listening to a man who is teaching you scripturalism. But when you listen to the Christian preacher or the Jewish Rabbi or the Muslim Imam, tell you that this man that was formed out of the Earth is not clay, physical clay, but he is a human mind that is a type of clay, not clay. Clay is a symbolic term that shows us a likeness of this mind that G-d made.
Clay when it is formed, it remains in the shape that it was formed in until something takes it out of its shape. When it is formed and hardened by fire, if you break it you destroy its form and it cannot be made over again except by G-d. G-d in the Genesis is telling us that the world cannot make, the human mind that He intends to rule in the human body. That only G-d can fashion the human mind and walk away after He does His work, and that mind remains intact and will not grow itself into another shape.
This mind that G-d makes is the mind of a messenger. The story of Adam, if we rightly understand it, is the story of the making of a prophet. We think that it is the beginning of people, and that is true in a sense. It is the beginning of a particular people, it is the beginning of a righteous people. The Bible has been so mixed up and tampered with, that we can't find the truth readily. G-d had to reveal the truth of its interpretation to the Honorable Elijah Muhammad.
The European people, called Gentiles in the Bible, they were given the Bible after it had been rewritten, revised, added in and taken out. They were given the book for them, not for you and me. It was given by the original people to the Gentiles and the story of Adam was changed to fit the life and the to-be history of the Gentiles. Like the original Adam, they also would be made and formed of the dust of the earth. That means raised up from the bottom, from savagery, from idolatry. They would be raised from the bottom by the original people of the East. And their halls of Caesar would be changed from a beast and savage hall into a civilized appearance, if not a reality.
We see, that in the reading of the Bible if we don't have understanding, we go way off. I must take the time here to let you know that the Honorable Elijah Muhammad has unlocked the Bible. And in unlocking the Bible he has unlocked our minds. He makes us to understand the parables of Jesus, the symbolic language that runs from Genesis to Revelations. And in making us understand it, we've come into the knowledge of real truth.
Many thinks that Jesus actually turned drinking water into drinking wine. The Honorable Elijah Muhammad has brought the Bible College to the black people of America. Not the Bible College that you find open in the cities of America, but the real Bible College. That Bible College that made messengers and prophets. He has brought that to the black people of America and has made us to understand that Jesus did not turn drinking water into drinking wine. That is not the water that you run out of your faucets at home. But he turned the revealed truth of G-d that is called water in scripture. It is only G-d that can that can lift truth up from its corrupted form, as water is lifted up from the Earth by the Sun, and bring it up from corruption and descend it back again to the Earth for our drinking, pure. The book called the word of scripture water and Jesus was a blessed and righteous prophet, a righteous and blessed servant of G-d who was blessed with the knowledge of interpretation. He is described in the book as a man. …spiritually reading of the Bible that the Jews were preaching to the people but Jesus came with the power of interpretation given to him by Almighty G-d, one whom he metaphorically or symbolically called his father. He kept with the true interpretation he was able to change that flat, death water, that could do nothing but survive the body to wine, divine wine, scriptural wine.
A word with the power to affect the heart and affect the mind and make those dead spirit Jews jump up and clap their hand and stomp their feet and say hallelujah, amen to the word Jesus. Now, we have a man like that in our midst and we haven't recognized him. You who are on the outside, you haven't come into the temples of Elijah Muhammad and got the teaching of the Bible. You have only read scripture in print and you don't have to go to a Bible College to read the Bible in print. Anybody that learned how to read English can read the Bible in print but the book said blessed is he that hears the word and you can only hear the word and its true interpretation.
I'm not here to preach to you a Christian sermon. I'm here to tell you that we have a black savior today. That G-d has come and found the people that were moaning and groaning without a head on their body living a freak with a white man head adapted to their body. G-d came and woke up one of us, one of the sleeping dead in the Bible, one of the sleeping dead in the church, one of the sleeping dead in the world of white man's mentality. G-d came in the person of Wali Fard Muhammad and raised up one of the sleeping dead, the honorable Elijah Muhammad but he did not leave the image that he came in before. He withdrew his image because it was not his flesh that he came to present to you and me it was divine mind and the divine will that he came and presented to you and me.
All praise be to Allah. Thank you, brothers and sisters, but we are trying to make a time limit so please hold your clapping, hold your applause and remain in your seat and say Amen. Say all praise is due to Allah for blessing us with the Honorable Elijah Muhammad. Today I say to you Muslims who were called or named black Muslim by someone outside of this Nation of Islam. They named us that but I want you to know we are not a people to harp upon color and racism. The Honorable Elijah Muhammad say this is not a race. He says this is a nation.
When you look here at this beautiful audience here, you see the Bibles picture of Josephs cloak of many beautiful colors. A man from China can come here and find his likeness among you, a man from Nigeria, or a man from Ghana can come here and find his likeness among you. A man From Misr that's the proper name for Egypt. Egyptians they don’t call themselves Egyptians, they called themselves Mizraim or misriun. The Bible calls them Mizraim. You see the Bible is closer to the correct pronunciation than this world that calls them Egyptians.
The people of what is called Egypt, if they came here, they could find their likeness among you. The Watusi can come and find his likeness among you. The Indians can come and find a likeness among you. Even the European Gentile can come here and find a likeness among you. If G-d is not justified in manifesting his will and his intentions for the whole world in you and me who are representative of the whole world then I say you should think again.
Not a white head, no this great work has not been done to present a black body with a white head. It has been done to present a black body with his own head with something that compliments that body, with something that does not disgrace that body. With something that the whole body can identify with and feel and say “yes I am whole and I am true to nature and I am belonging to myself.” You know brothers and sisters the Holy Quran tells that that there was Jinn. Jinn is the same as Gentile that there were Jinn helping the prophet Solomon build the kingdom. The same Holy Quran tells us that the Jinn, or the Gentile, bore witness that they had heard a beautiful recital of the Quran and they advised themselves and those who were not Gentile to listen to it because they admitted that it was a true recital.
Today we have lived to witness the Gentiles of America, the Gentiles of Chicago, the Gentiles of New York City, the Gentiles of the Los Angeles and the Gentiles in the South in Atlanta, Georgia stand up and say “we pay tribute to the great man the Honorable Elijah Muhammad and to his great work.” While I was on the air, one of the Gentiles called in and said “the Honorable Elijah Muhammad is a financial god in the black community”. We have not been raised to be a foolish disrespectful people simply because we have had a second raising.
The Caucasian world of yesterday reared the slaves. They reared them to grow up as strong bodies but with baby minds. They reared them to be children and many of them refused to address us as mister and miss or man and woman. They called the grown men and women of our people boys and girls because they knew they had uprooted the man and planted boy mentality in the body. We call the black man of America but since then since 1930, since the coming of Master Wali Fard Muhammad, the manifestation of G-d to the Honorable Elijah Muhammad, since that day and time there has been a second rearing of G-d's children in America by G-d Himself. If anyone says this is not G-d's doing, I want you to reflect a bit. We are living in a time when everything that has been put together by men without the recognition and respect and dependency upon G-d has manifested itself, has shown itself to be unable to stand up and stay together in this 1975.
In these '70s we have lived to see integration come apart at its vital and strongest seams. In these '70s we have lived to see the church influence, the synagogue influence, even the orthodox mosque influence weakening at its vital seams. In these '70s we have lived to see old and vital institutions of the west weaken and break in their vital seams. We have seen sons of an old established generation of learned men and women leave the homes of their learned parents with college education filling their heads. Put on sneakers and raggedy old pants, funky dirty t-shirt and grow their hair long like a woman and their beard fill their face hiding the dignified image of a man and giving the resemblance of an animal behind bars.
We have seen the strong of the strong turn from the house of strength and walk out in the street more weak than the black man of America that they took from the land called Africa and reared up with no manhood and no womanhood and planted in their physical body a child’s mentality. We have seen the institution and the son of learned generation fall down and fall out of the grip of civilization. In our lifetime, in this very decade, we have seen with our own eyes and the world cannot deny it, we have seen the government of America shook in its vital seams. We have seen the mighty dragon. We have seen the great Pope that had blood and flesh and life and thirst for physical consumption like cows and bulls and apes and gorillas and grew to be a great giant, physically, with a big giant brain materially but a pea-size brain morally and spiritually.
We have lived to see in this decade the government of this great giant weaken and shake and break in its vital seams and until this very moment we have not seen them come up with that that convinces them and us that they have come upon something that has in it the power to do then power of G-d has undone in their house. Do you understand?

They have trained their people to look to a president but they have trained them to recognize that a president walks with a vice president. The Honorable Elijah Muhammad didn't train but a few here. He kept it hid from the many and revealed it only to the few. He only trained a few here to see that a leader was walking but there was another walking with him, learning how to walk his walk when the time demanded it.

All praises due to Allah. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
Look the one hundred and thirty-some pounds of flesh and blood that Sandersville, Georgia gave birth to. That one hundred and thirty-some pounds of flesh and blood is now resting waiting to be returned to its Earth. It's not standing here in that flesh, that Georgia birth. And look what the power of divine truth in him that sprung out from his mind like water shot from a mighty fountain and sprinkled all over us and we were so thirsty until our dry tongue went out and lick all of it up that would come to us. The water of Elijah Muhammad filled our dry bodies and gave birth to a scriptural wet mind that can feed the black masses, the life germ of G-d from now to eternity.

Look, my brothers and sisters, listen, please. Listen, my brothers and my sisters, listen.

Look around you, what do you see? Do you see something bursting loose in its vital seams? The whole world has failed to present unity, to present accord, to convince the subjects of the world that there is unity and strength. You can depend upon us, we are one body. G-d has manifested us under the leadership of Elijah Muhammad of the divine body that G-d wants the world to see today.

There is no strength on the world greater than G-d's strength. What you see here today, my brothers and sisters, and when I say that I mean all of you who have in your heart truth, decency, honesty and love for G-d and righteousness. All of you, my brothers and sisters, I speak to you outside of this building for all those who are listening now on closed television, I tell you and not only you but those who don't hear all of you who can identify or find a likeness among us, all over the planet Earth. I tell you that this is the work of almighty G-d, this is a divine body and the Honorable Elijah Muhammad is not a hundred and thirty-some pounds of flesh and blood. The Honorable Elijah Muhammad is a mind, a spirit, a morality that is from G-d Almighty that is filling the Nation of Islam. That is called a nation because a new people are coming into birth who starts off like an Adam and an Eve in a garden or in a wilderness and grow into a family and into a tribe and on and on into a nation.
This is a nucleus. This is a beginning. This is a small community but the Nation of Islam is the whole Earth.

Don't think that this means we are going to get political. No, it was not political power that built ancient Egypt. It was spiritual, it was moral, it was religious power, it was divine power that entered the great Pharaoh, the first build of ancient Egypt. It was not political power that made the white civilization what it is today. It was revealed word that entered into Europe and established a power in Rome, a religious power. And the gentile world got a shot in the savage vein of a savage arm and had the courage to march with the banner of civilization in their hands. The world you see today at its roots, in its beginning, is divine power.


