08/07/1976
IWDM Study Library 
Bermuda

By Imam W. Deen Mohammed
As salaam Alaikum. Everything in human life is growing, evolving, everything. Everything in human life is growing and evolving. What is in you is growing and evolving. If it's not, it's just staying there and waiting until something can happen to make it evolve. Everything that is around you is doing the same thing. Even our ideas.
There was a time when we were mostly concerned about and with physical slavery. The physical slavery. But once people are physically free, then if they don't have truth, they come into another form of slavery. And the next form you come into is no weaker than the first form. If anything, it's stronger as a grip to hold you in slavery than that form that was before. Because everything is growing and everything's evolving. All of our concepts are growing, and all of our concepts are getting bigger and more complex.
So, the simple things of yesterday are not so simple today. If people didn't have the truth yesterday and you're in physical slavery, today they're in a worse kind of slavery, and look at the slavery today. No man has to hold you with physical chains. No one has to put a yoke on your shoulder. But look how much of a slave many of us are in the big cities of the western world. And I imagine that we have slaves here in the Caribbean.
People who have all the physical room, but can't do anything. Plenty knowledge in the world, plenty knowledge to feed on, but the mind can't move. Isn't this the worst form of slavery that we had when the physical chains were on us and the yokes were on our back? It's a worse form of slavery.
The worst slavery you could come into is the slavery of false conceptions, false ideas in religion, and in worldly life. Those beautiful concepts we had have now become a curse on our society. Love. Is love working in our society now? Love is working destruction in our society. Those people who preach love the most are those people who are the most detrimental, most destructive, the most poisonous people in the society.
"Are you talking about the church, mister?" No, I'm not talking about the church. Others have taken over the horn of love from the church. They're beatniks and hippies and all kind of crazy people out there now, blowing the horn of love louder than the church is blowing. Look what has happened to our concept we call democracy. Democracy has become an excuse to tear down all the things that democracy was trying to bring to us so that we would have some kind of peace and a peaceful life to live. Is that right?
Now that very word is used to kill the very things that we were trying to bring about with that word. This is judgment. I'm not saying that there will not be another judgment, but the Book says that everything has its counterpart. The physical life has its spiritual counterpart. This physical world has its spiritual counterpart. But G-d said, "Those things that I promise you in that spiritual world, universe, after this physical counterpart has vanished." And we know that this physical universe is not going to last forever. We have heard that the earth survives forever, but it didn't mean it as we thought it meant. We know the sun itself is dying. Science tells us that. The sun itself is gradually dying. We know they've gone to the moon. The moon is something that is already dying as a living body that can produce life, it is dead. It's a dust bowl, a dust thing, is that right?
Yeah. It still serves a purpose. Everything has to serve a purpose. Death itself serves a purpose. But the world that we call the world of life is dying, and the sun itself that feeds this physical earth, its energy, so that we can have food to eat and have energy for our industries, that very sun, science says is dying. We know the physical world is passing away. But should we be more concerned about something that is passing away at the rate of speed, maybe, of one inch and a billion years, and overlook the destruction that is happening right around us, that is happening at the speed of a billion miles in one minute?
So, the wise men of scripture wanted us to be concerned about the distant things, but they wanted us to be planted in what's happening now. Think about it and use that wording to keep your path straight while you're here now. Is that right?
In the words of Prophet Muhammad, he said, "Live your life every day as though you are going to live forever. And again, live your life every day as though tomorrow you'll be dead." This is a balanced philosophy. A balanced philosophy. This philosophy that is expressed in the saying of Prophet Muhammad is given clearly in the whole Qur'an. The Qur'an says, "What's that we seek? With everything that G-d has given you to use, that home that He has promised you in the hereafter, but don't let, "Wa la Tansa." "But don't forget, "Na Si Bata Minal Dunya", but don't forget that you have a share to attend to right here in this world." This is the balanced teaching.
It's no different from that, that Abraham taught, that Jesus taught. What make it appear different to us is this. The successor of a righteous servant of G-d comes because there's a need to revive the message of the previous man. There's a need to clean the pollution from the air that was established by the previous man. "Oh, but Christ's message was not affected. Satan couldn't touch it." Read your Bible again. The Bible tells you that Satan would be held in check for a time, then Satan would rise up and take over everybody, even the elects of G-d.
Isn't that the Bible?
The Old Testament tells us that there will come a time, a time of famine, a hunger will take the whole world. See, it's not a hunger for bread and water, a hunger for the word of G-d. This is the Bible. I know how we get off the track, but I can't understand preachers hearing this clear truth from the Bible and seeing what the Nation of Islam is trying to do and not be able to identify with what they're doing. Then say, "Right on, brother. You have my support."
I can't understand that, because I know preachers have some knowledge of what the Book is saying. And if these preachers can't hear what I'm saying, they are dead in their hearts, they are dead in their brains, they are dead in their spirit. If there's any life in any man who is acquainted with that Bible, then he hears the plain message of the Nation of Islam, he has to recognize that here is the word of Jesus. This man has the word of Jesus. I know this is Jesus in this man's word. That's if you know what Jesus was all about.
Brothers and sisters, we have a big job to do.
Satan has taken the world from man. And when I say man, I mean from the human mind. We think of man as a thing that happens when it happens.
But man happens right here. And it happens in every woman as well. Now isn't that the truth?
All Praises due to Allah.
I'd like to read now from another chapter, and move on with this talk, and I hope I don't wear out your patience.
Holy Qur'an, Chapter called The Jinn. It says, "Jinn or the spirits." But look at what it said here. This chapter is titled, Jinn or the Spirits. But look how it reads, it says, "True, there were persons among mankind who took shelter with persons among the Jinns." The translator, he said, "Jinn are spirits." He was speaking from the teachings that he had received. Certainly, Jinns are spirits, and Jinns are also persons. Human beings are persons, but we're also spirits, aren't we?
It says, "True, there were persons among mankind who took shelter with persons among the Jinns, but they increased them in only folly." What is this talking about, brothers and sisters? It is talking about a certain form of man's own development, our mind's own development. Mind comes into existence as a blank, having nothing on it, knowing nothing. There might be forces of heredity working in the mind, but the mind knows nothing about it.
They tell me that there's some psychoanalysts and whatnot, who can take your mind back and even make you recall things that went on when you were in the womb of your mother. Well, I'm sure you've heard about this, and even before, some of them claim, that they can take you even further back than that. Now, I don't know about that. I don't bother with that part of it. But I can see that perhaps the mind can be led back. It can't carry itself back, but perhaps it can be led back to know what went on when it was being formed in the womb of its mother.
Anyways, science now says that that is the truth. G-d says even more than that. G-d says that when the final judgment comes, everything you've done in your life will suddenly come before your eyes. And you'll see your whole history, the whole history of your being, from the beginning until the point of judgment. This is what religion says. Psychology is the only way to try to establish that fact, but I don't know, I think they get off on the wrong track too sometimes.
But the point we want to make now is that human beings are an evolving life, and the great truth that the Messengers of G-d brought to us is this, that things are at rest in the creation. The sun is at rest. The moon is at rest. The earth is at rest. Animals are at rest. The only thing that is not at rest is the human being. You are not at rest. You're still growing. You're still evolving. You haven't found yet, your place of rest. And you don't ever find your place of rest in this life. You only move up higher and higher to that place of rest, until you get at a place in this life where you can deal with life and you're at, I would say, a plane of rest, but you're yet not resting.
The only thing that will rest us when we come into the full reality of the real truth, and that is promised to us with all the physical creation, as that is the way. But G-d says, "Nevertheless, you can come to a plain in the sky of your human development," not a plain in the physical sky, you can come to a plain of rest in the sky of your human development that will enable you to work comfortably and to see and not be worried about making mistakes. G-d promises that. It says in the Holy Qur'an, "For those who believe, G-d will lead them." It says, "Those who hold on to the rope of G-d, hold on to this truth, that there is but One G-d, One G-d, nothing else rules life, but that One G-d. Nothing else has power over life but that One G-d." You say, "Oh man, I know other things have power over my life." You have given other things power over your life. But if you latch on to that rope, the reality that is G-d, One G-d, you will see that nothing is a power in your life but Almighty G-d.
I bear witness myself that nothing is a power in my life but Almighty G-d. I don't say I'm pure and perfect. No, I'm a human being, and human beings must struggle and strive always to be better and better.
And I'm still on that path, but I have reached that plane. And I guarantee you, brother and sister, you can't fight me. G-d is my only fear. Everything must evolve, and G-d has given us help. He said, "Man," through His prophets, "Remember that leadership is natural, too, in life." When you come out of your mother's womb, you come out head first. If you don't, they call it a funny birth, a breach birth they call it, right? Normally, we come out of our mother's womb head first, and then we are able to turn the body over, get on our hands and knees, the head leads us in our motion of travel. Is that right?
Then once we manage to balance ourselves on two feet, the head becomes the crown, boss on top. Is that right?
But see, life is all about leadership, truth, oneness, unity, government. But what kind of government? Natural government. A government that has been divinely described in the world order for man to pattern himself after. This is the teachings of Almighty G-d. The scripture tells us that everything in existence is speaking to you, speaking to your mind, everything. What you touch says something to your mind, what you smell says something to your mind. What you taste says something to your mind. What you see says something to your mind. What you hear, brother, says something to your mind. I don't care what it is, where it comes from, whenever it gets to your mind, it says something to it. Is that right?
G-d's speaking to you. G-d is speaking to you. Now, He has a higher way of speaking. A way of speaking that is above the five senses, expression in the body. We call that divine revelation, but G-d says in His book, it says clearly and this is in the Qur'an, G-d says, "I reveal to you, man. I give each you a bit of My spirit, a bit of My inspiration, man and woman." Is that right?
This is what the book says. And He says, "There's coming a time, man, when I am going to reveal to the earth and the earth is going to speak. The earth is going to rock and shake and speak to your mind, man." This is what G-d says. G-d says, "Go on, greedy creature, who thinks the only life you have is in your physical makeup. Go on greedy creature. You are going to grow into a material beast. So that when that day come, man, I am going to make that material beast speak to your mind, man."
Oh, don't think judgment gives you any room to run. I said this is judgment. The light is so clear and so bright, there's no room to run. It penetrates all gross material things. It goes right to the core of the being. Brothers and sister, G-d gives us a vital truth that can save us, can save us at any time, and at all times if we recognize it, and that vital truth is this: That everything you see as a physical creation is nothing but a word of G-d. When you see the sun, you see a word of G-d. G-d has formed something out there that says something to your mind, says something to your mind that will help you, man.
The moon, He has formed it as a word, saying something to your mind that will help you. He says, "And not only up there," he says, "In the earth, I have established My words. And the things you see on earth, man, are My words." I'm quoting scripture plain and clear. He says, "Not only there, man," He says, "But in yourselves are My words." Now, if G-d says with His divine revelation to His prophets that what we see in the skies above are His words, and what we see in the ground under our feet and in the things about us in this atmosphere are His words, and what constitutes our own makeup are His words, what is G-d saying to us?
He's saying this, "That every achievement that you make, that every good you accomplish, that every power you reach, I gave it to you. And I can prove it because you are using My words."
Do you understand?
"Man, if you've done anything with the sunlight, I get the credit, not you, because you used My words. If you've done anything with the earth below or with the forces of nature, with the rains and the waters, with the rivers, if you've done anything with the lands, the winds, with the fertility that is in the ground, if you've done anything with the animals that carry you on their backs or worked for you or serve you in your lab, if you've done anything with anything that exists, if you've done anything with a spiritual thought, distracts your mind from the objects I've put into creation, man knows that I get the credit for that, not you." That's what G-d has said.
Because you can't do anything by yourself. Not only you're at your environment, but you yourself, is My word. I've put these words out there to pregnant your mind, to cause you to think. I want the wheels of your intelligence to turn over. I want your eyes to stay open. I want you to look and see the signs that speak to you for your own good human development. Not on one plane, but on seven planes. G-d says there's seven heavens, not seven spooks or seven rooms for spooks, but seven graduations for human development. The kingdom is within you. Don't forget it. Is that right?
All right, so G-d says there's seven planes. We start on earth, come in to birth in the flesh body. And in the flesh body, the mind begins to feel some senses, trying to feed its development. Those senses are called the five senses. Trying to feed the development of the mind in the flesh, is that right?
And as the senses feed and feed and feed, they begin to produce some kind of interchange, a relationship, a mating together is trying to happen. Is that right? Here is one force pulling us here, and another force pulling us here, and they won't come together. But in our own selves, we want those forces to come together. Is that right?
So here it is pulling, trying to come together.
The physical says, "Do this." The moral says, "Question it first." Is that right?
Pretty soon, the physical, over a period of time, not a whole lifetime, just a few years, the physical pull has established a lot of things that it wants us to do. Is that right?
And the moral nature has also established on the other side, a lot of things that it wants us to do. Is that right? And we're being pulled, disagreement in our makeup. Is that right? Disagreement in our body. We're being pulled to one direction by one force, and in another direction by another force, but all the time, there's a life force in us, a third principle, a third factor, that is warning us, "Bring them together." Is that right? So don't let them argue with each other like that. Don't let them diverge like that. Bring them together.
So, something is in us that is truly our life core is saying to us, "Bring the spiritual monster, and this morally blind thing. Bring them together and rule them. And if you can just bring them together and rule them, that one that's straying out there is going to be disciplined. He's going to be tamed. And that one that's straying in the dark, he's going to be brought to the light." Is that right?
So, in keeping your willpower alive in yourself, a will to see the best of the moral life, evolve to a higher plane.
Speaker 1:
You've been listening to the Chief Minister of the Nation of Islam, the Honorable W. Deen Mohammed, speaking to you from Chicago, Illinois. Bilalian News, Bilalian News, Bilalian News.
IWDM:
Bilal was an outstanding man in the history of Islam. Bilal became the first mu'azzin, the first minister of Prophet Muhammad, may peace be upon here. And this man was a black slave from Africa. He was so sincere, his soul was so pure, that Prophet Muhammad and the other leaders under him addressed this man, Master Bilal.
Speaker 1:
Bilalian News, the newspaper that's dedicated to truth and justice for all people of the earth. Bilalian News, your newspaper that's factual, timely and essential. Bilalian News covers the four corners of the earth with topics that are vital to the world and to the community. Get Bilalian News at your newsstands or through your-
IWDM:
Is that right? We are being pulled, disagreements in our makeup. Is that right? Disagreements in our body. We're being pulled one direction by one force and in another direction by another force. But all the time, there is a life force in us, a third physical, a third factor, that is warning us, "Bring them together." Is that right? So don't let them argue with each other like that. Don't let them diverge like that. Bring them together.
So, something is in us that is truly our life force, that's saying to us, "Bring the spiritual monster, and this morally blind thing, bring them together and rule them. And if you can just bring them together and rule them, that one that's straying out there is going to be disciplined. He's going to be tamed. And that one that's straying in the dark, he's going to be brought to the light." Is that right? So, in keeping your willpower alive in yourself, a will to see the best of the moral life, evolve to a higher plane, and a will to see the best development in the physical world. Muhammad is willing you, a will for the best for both, the moral nature and the physical nature, putting them together, making them agree with each other. The moral life coming to us, and the discipline in our physical body, don't we? Without willpower, can we discipline our physical body? No, indeed.
Those persons that you see, they are not able to take baths, not able to brush their teeth, not able to do the things they know they have to do to be comfortable in life. It's because of what they established in life. Most of them have lost their will. Their willpower is dead. In the Bible this will in us is called Adam. Now, we need more than will. That will needs to feed off of something that is greater than it. That will needs to feed on G-d and truth. Is that right? If that will constantly sees your G-d in truth, that will seek the source, the muscular part of you, to hold the reigns, to hold the rope. At this point, there's one body, moral and physical, right? He has the power and the will, seeing your G-d as his life, and you have to start the whole, the moral on the one hand, and the physical life, and keep your reigns on both of them. Don't let the physical world get away from you, and don't let the moral body go away from you. Is that right?
See, this is a perfect truth brothers and sisters. And the book says that G-d made Adam, is that right? He made Adam and put Adam in the Garden. And Adam was deceived. Not directly by the serpent, but indirectly. The Book says that the serpent then deceived the woman and then the woman fell to the poison of the serpent. Is that right?
Okay, what are we talking about? Who is the woman? The woman is just physical flesh. Adam is your spirit. That's his life. The serpent is your rational mind. The life of your mind, the serpent has been up there in the garden. But it failed because it spoke lies to Adam. Is that right? To Eve, I mean. Adam and Eve, the willpower that is called Adam, because the serpent was not right. It means that your life in your mind is clean and upright. There's nothing wrong with your mind. Your rational mind is a perfect tool of development. But if you listen to the spirit in a life form instead of listening to G-d, then your physical body is going to affect your moral life because it has had no direction.
That which is inferior should not lead that which is superior, unless the superior as we know, has let the inferior lead. Is that right?
So, we shouldn't condemn the inferior for messing up our world, we must condemn that which is superior for the messed up things in our world. The flesh as flesh is more simple as a concept than the physical world is. What is G-d telling us about flesh? He's telling us this: That the physical world has no bone in it. The physical world, which is instructing man, don't have a sway on you except the signs that speak my truth. So don't go out looking for the physical world. Don't start in the physical world as a physical body. Look for My truth in the physical world. Let the physical world speak to you my truths.
The sun shouldn’t just be an object of pleasure to you, an object of warmth and comfort to you. Water couldn't be just a drink of water to you. You should look at these things and see and read in these things My message to you. Your flesh should not just be physical flesh to you man. You should look at your physical flesh and see My message in your physical flesh to you. And the message is this, "That you are rising out of creation. Over all of the physical world, I am going to make you My custodian, that you be My King, that you be My ruler in this physical world."
The man that is to live as a human being, he's is not under the influences of his flesh, not as a slave. He goes to the physical ground for his food, to the physical earth for his food. But he's not a materialist. If you don't believe it, all you have to do is go to where people are living in primitive society. And see how these people live. They're eating from the ground, they're eating from the trees, but they're not materialist. They're a spiritual people.
I've read a book by an author on the pygmy people. A people who refuse to come out and participate in what we know to be physical civilization. This author lived amongst these people for years and he said they are the most loving people. He says he had never met a people so loving. They care for each other. He said there's just like one big family. They don't know how not to care for each other. I don't know about how dangerous they are, the stuff some people write about them with their poisonous darts. And he said they're so loving like that, that they get along well with each other.
They have found at least humanity. They have found the respect for each other as human beings, you see. So, when they see an enemy coming with their guns with their rifles and whatnot, I don't blame them for getting their weapons out, whether it be poisonous darts or whatever. You see? It's a fact that these people have the love for each other that we don't have, in our Western world. And there are thousands of people he discovered there, that are borne of that. That primitive life has concern for each other, love for the babies, love for the wives, and particularly for the family.
There are those who come into the world with raw materials. When a baby comes into the world with a family, they are yearning for a human touch. If they touch the baby, the baby responds naturally, is that right? You didn't have to teach that baby that they're family. That baby was born feeling accepted in the family, is that right? And as we see it through, let it manifest in that baby naturally. You feed that baby, you give it milk, you give it food. Is that right?
Now after that baby grows older, and start feeding on the poison atmosphere of our world, that baby changes, doesn't it? Then it's hard for him to keep its smile. But look at how easy that baby was able to smile as it was coming up. And for that baby smiling, no teeth or nothing. Is that right? You know how babies are. All the babies smiling. They don't know how to talk. They don't know our language.
So how can say think that this life is sinful? How in the world can we believe that flesh is sinful? When it's not. Flesh is not sinful unitl sin starts to influence it. Not from the womb, the physical womb, but from the spiritual womb. Of ignorance. These are the facts of life. In the flesh body, they say that they saved the fleshed body. G-d has kept them there. They say that the sins of the flesh body are the five senses. The five senses are residing in the flesh body to guard the flesh body. To raise it up. Into a more and higher moral sense. With G-d's help.
Because the flesh is only sinful or weak when the five senses are removed from the respect it should have for G-d. Now we have been told that in order to save our flesh body, we must have faith. Is that right? Brother that's jumping over the steps. G-d has given us certain steps in order for us to come close to His throne. We must walk up certain steps. The highest step is spiritual maturity. Spiritual maturity. Why jump up high off the ground on the highest level, and miss all these steps of graduation, when G-d has intended for you to develop in stages. The have tricked the world, brothers and sisters.
Satan has influenced scripture, that was guarded by holy men. Holy men that had to fight for their lives. Holy men who had to escape in the dark to avoid the murderers that wanted to kill all the men of G-d. They had to run for their lives. They had to hide the true purpose of scripture. Persecuted, they had to hide underground.
So, in the future, when certain people got their hands on the scripture, they didn't know how to use it. Because the scripture had been put in a language because those they had it were forced to shroud it in certain language.
The Gentile world picked up those scrolls and scrutinized what they found, but really didn't know what they had. So, they spend 300 years trying to figure out what did G-d mean by certain revelations and scriptures. "What does G-d mean by person? By nature?"
So, they argued these concepts in Christianity for centuries. And finally, the arguments were settled enough until they established the Church of Rome and the Christian religion fell into the hands of the Western world. Is that right?
Was that kind of confusion going on when Jesus was in the land? Not according to the Bible. Jesus never caused that kind of confusion. Jesus came into their world of confusion and darkness and attempted to straighten them out. He came in to settle the argument. Is that right?
So, let's give an example of what I am talking about. The story goes that when the woman touched the garment of Jesus, she was healed. Is that right? Now we know that this has a higher meaning. But let's look at the first meaning. The first meaning is this. If you would just have faith like the one that is with G-d, you will be healed.
Look at what is happening to the rest of the world. People find themselves so drunk with emotion until they can't even think straight. They have faith, but they are not able to move out of the darkness into the light. Is that right?
So, is that what we are living for? All emotion and no substance? Most people are doing nothing in order to move towards the light. Is that right?
All right. Light is from G-d. And feeling is necessary. It is the necessary principle in order to feed ourselves solid principles. We feel it before we can speak. People have faith, but where is the development? Is that right?
So, this enables the world to be taken over by corrupt people. But go among true Christians and true Muslims, and you will find that they are living according to the light and not darkness. Am i right?
And it took the Renaissance to bring the Christian world out of darkness and into the light. Am I right?
So, all this knowledge, when put in the right perspective, serves to bring man to a higher level of thinking and living in the midst of the confusion that can prevail in religious life. Is that right?
Speaker 1:
You've been listening to the Chief Minister of the Nation of Islam, the Honorable W. Deen Mohammed, speaking to you from Chicago, Illinois. Bilalian News.


