03/14/1976
IWDM Study Library 
Noah’s Flood

By Imam W. Deen Mohammed
They talking about now, Noah's floods. Noah's floods. We have heard so many stories about this flood. An average person in religion thinks that it really means that it started raining. And it just kept raining, until water rose up over the houses and everything, and even covered the mountains, and drowned all flesh. Okay. But let's look at it a little bit now. This Noah's flood, what are they talking about exactly? It's talking about the death of flesh in two ways. Flesh represents the senses. But we are sensitive in our flesh body. Is that right?
Before the feelings are transmitted... are transferred, pardon me, to the mind, they had to first come to the flesh. Right?
We feel something on our flesh, and this is transferred to the mind. The senses. We look at the physical flesh body, as representing man's senses. When someone is insensitive, we say he is callous. Is that right?
And callous means, skin grown hard like a rock. Is that right?
There's no life, no feeling in it anymore. Do you see? So, we've always identified the physical body with the senses. In the Nation, Lost Found Nation of Islam, you know that we have received lessons on the five senses. Is that right?
Right. They're very important, because that is the beginning of your development. We first begin in the senses that are held in the flesh, and we begin to grow and develop into our complete forms.
All right, now. The flood killed all flesh. If we're going to use this interpretation now, of flesh, it means that this flood killed human sentiments. It destroyed sympathy and empathy in the society, and made the society hard, cold, or callous. Is that right?
But what is a callous anyway, but dead flesh? Isn't that what it is? There's no life in it. So that's what it's saying to us. That the society became callous, dead. They didn't have feelings for each other anymore. Do you understand? All right. So, this is what this road takes us to. That the first Adam fell. It says the first, because he didn't get enough knowledge, and he wasn't strong enough in his spiritual nature. And not that all people came down this road. Just a particular people came down this road. Most people, they pass the test. They don't fall, the snake don't get everybody. But it got this particular people that are described or under the name, Adam in Genesis. All right, let's keep moving here now.
So, Noah's flood killed all flesh. What did G-d tell Noah when He told him to make the ark? Told him to get animals. Two and two. Why is that told to us? To let us know that G-d didn't really have it out for no animals. He wasn't out to kill flesh. He told Noah to get flesh, save flesh. Is that right?
So, it's not that flesh that His anger is against. It's another kind of flesh that His anger is against. All right. Let's go, now. He told him to get animals, two and two, and he brought in animals of all kinds, into the ark. Is that right?
To tell us that G-d is not angry with animals, He's not angry with flesh. He's angry with man, for his rejection. He rejected Him, and I've thrown curses and now I'm coming with another one. See, if you hit a child once, he don't get straight, you'll come back with that strap, don't you?
All right. So, G-d hit Adam once, and made him to go blind spiritually, and cause him to lose the happiness. That peaceful bliss that he was enjoying. But that wasn't enough to keep him the right way. We're talking about this particular people. All right. He had to hit him again. This time he hit him by embarrassing his intellectual order. The philosopher found out that this thing we have come up with ain't as strong as we thought it was. He shamed them by having them babble their philosophy out. Is that right?
They failed as leaders for the society. Their philosophy failed to save the society. And the power of philosophy fell down into nothing but babble. Okay. Let's go on now. But that wasn't enough, brothers and sisters. He still wasn't hip to what was going on in real life, and he had to be struck again. This time, He struck him by killing him in the thing that had sent him wrong from the beginning. He had yielded to the powers of his flesh. His senses had guided him off the right path. Is that right?
His physical senses, his biological senses, the drives of his flesh, had directed him off the right path. So, G-d now, decked him right in the thing that led him wrong in the beginning. And curses him by making him dead in the flesh. Now let me tell you, that's one of the worst curses that come up on a society. And let me tell you again, America is a diverse, complex, mixed up society. And you'll find every extreme in America. And I'm telling you, that extreme callousness cannot be matched anywhere in the world. We are the most insensitive people in the whole world. Dead in the flesh, don't feel for each other. Read news of death, of misery. Just like we read news of the stock market. In fact, we don't have the feelings for the human beings that are suffering and dying, that we have for the fluctuation in the stock market report. Is that right?
Insensitive. Walking around in the community, see women trembling. They can't keep a straight face, from looking to the side and behind them. Not knowing when some crazy, lunatic, ravenous thief, is going to run up and snatch a purse off her arm or something. Believe me, this world is not only the Mount Everest, brothers and sisters, of material accomplishment, scientific accomplishment. It is also the Mount Everest of every wickedness you can identify in the book. Believe it or not.
Now, this Noah's flood came to kill our flesh, so G-d brought about callousness. Insensitive feelings in people for each other, as a curse on them, to show them that "See, the road that you're following? See the consequences of it? See what it has brought you to? You don't want to listen to Me. I tried to draw you with love. Created you, and forced you to come together, but putting in you, a desire for each other. But you have followed your own path now. And that desire is not respected anymore." The sacred relationship turned into just a sex toy for us. Isn't that, right?
All right, the curse, brothers and sisters. Okay, now. They go here and this flood comes, and they say this flood rose so high, until it covered the Mount Iraq, I think it's called. Is that right?
All right. What does this tell us? What does a mountain represent? A mountain represent government. You see, the insensitive nature started with the common people. Because their leaders had deserted them. Had stopped giving them guidance. Children will become insensitive to each other's needs, if their parents don't continue guiding them. Is that right?
All right. So, the leaders neglect the masses, and the masses first grow callous. But this flood of callousness is gonna rise. Think in about 40 days. We'll talk on that another time, because we'll spend a whole lot of time in the things that we don't have to talk about today. But everything has a meaning, has a real significance. That flood began with the masses, brother. And the water began to mount up higher and higher. Pretty soon, the high up become callous.
The last thing to become callous is the government. They become callous. They don't have feelings for each other, don't have respect for each other. That's the last thing to happen in the destruction of a society. When its leaders become insensitive to each other, and lose respect for each other.
And isn't that what has happened here in this country?
Look how they have neglected each other, look how they've attacked and cut up each other. So that's what we get in Noah's flood. The rising of callousness that began with the masses. And it rises up and rises up util it engulfs the leaders of society. And when that happens, time for a new world order. What does the book say? Noah began a new world order. Is that right or wrong?
When Noah came out of that ark with his family, he began creating anew. Everything had to be started all over again. Now we have come to the end of this world society. We have seen the floods reach the leaders. Is that right?
We have seen them become so callous that they don't even know what's happening right around them, in the high up offices. Wrestling against each other, and don't know that there's another human being in the office. Planning and scheming how to cut his throat. Yeah. All right, brothers and sisters. Now how is this new world order going to be made? The book said, "As it was in the day of Noah, so shall it be in the days of the coming of the son of man." Now I know you thought that was Jesus, but that man is Muhammad. All right. Muhammad comes, and when Muhammad comes, he comes in one that was rejected. Dead. Thrown out, dead. And he comes in that one. And he began glowing. And as he glowed, people misidentified him. "No, that's not Muhammad. That's the Church."
So, in that new Muhammad, they see first, the coming, the return of Jesus. Not Jesus in his body that he lived in, in those days. Not the soul that was in that body in those days, but the mind, the sensitivity, the concern for righteousness and for humanity. It's come up again. That same life has come up again in a newer man. And that's Muhammad. Now, this Muhammad is both Christ and Muhammad. But he's not that same Muhammad that brought the Holy Qur'an. Not that same soul that lived in that body. But a man with the same interests. And that truth that was revealed to him.
All right, you don't have to believe it. All Praise be to Allah. If you believe it, it's for your own good. If you reject it, you just cut off yourself. You can't cut off this. Look at it yesterday. Look at it today. Hasn't it grown? All right. So how now must the world be remade? It must be remade in a dream, with the prophesy. As it was in the day of Noah, so shall it be in the days of the coming of the son of man. After the flood, G-d first caused the water to.... He caused those waters to start coming down. Is that right?
He caused the callousness to start coming down. But where did it come down from, first? From the high up. The high ups realized, "Oh, we've gone wrong, we've brought curses upon us. That will wipe out our institutions and our established order. If we don't right away get some concern for the middle men and women in the streets, we are going to be finished. Free the slaves, give them equality, give them equal justice." Isn't that right? All Praise is due to Allah.
So, the waters began to retreat, they began to come down. First the mountain top has to be seen. And what did Martin Luther King say? He said, "I've been to the mountain top." What does he mean by that? That, "I have seen what G-d has in His plans for us. The mountains are going to soften up. The waters of callousness are going to come down from the mountain top." That's what he meant. That he had a vision that this world was going to come to a better place, and a better order. All right. Let's go on a little bit further.
Then the water came down, but there was still a problem. Noah didn't feel it was safe yet. Now, who is Noah? Noah is the man that had died. That's Adam. The true human being. He couldn't come out yet and populate the world. He didn't feel it safe to come out and populate the world. So, Noah first sent out an old raven bird. Is that right?
He couldn't go out, the world wasn't fit for him. So, he sent out a raven bird. Go and search, and see can you find a place in that world that has gotten better, but not good enough for me. That old raven bird went out there and he didn't come back. That let Adam know that the world still wasn't ready for him. Because if an old raven bird can find a place out there, there's still something wrong with it. See, that old raven, he's an insensitive bird. He is not a loving, sensitive bird. He's insensitive. Quarrelsome, fight type of a bird. Is that right?
All right. He can do good things, but he resembles fighters in his nature. Not peacemakers. So, he sent out that old raven, and that old raven found a place, and told Noah, that, "Oh, the water ain't up here. But that water of callousness is still down there on that earth. So, I'll wait a while more. So, after another period elapsed, he sent out a turtle dove. And you know we sing dongs about the turtle dove, don't you? As free and as a loving as a little turtle dove. So, he sent out a turtle dove, and the turtle dove came back. That shows Noah, that still it ain't ready.
It's getting much better now. We can go out, but they ain't ready. They won't kill us. See, turtle dove there, was symbolic of the kind of nature, the kind of human life that is in Noah. If the turtle dove came back, it meant that Noah could go out and come back, but still they weren't ready. Because if they were ready, the turtle dove wouldn't have come back. He would've found a home out there just like the one he found with Noah. Is that right?
All right, let's keep moving with this subject. So, what did G-d do then? He caused the wind to blow. The wind had to blow and dry out the water. Now, there's many winds in the Bible. There are winds of war and winds of compassion. Both winds will help to dry up the water of callousness. Won't they? Some people are changed from their callous nature by suffering what others suffered. And it caused them to feel what others feel. Is that right?"
So, some have to be whipped with the winds of adversity. They have to be hurt in their body. All right. Then there are others that, that kind of whipping won't change them. But the winds of kindness, the winds of compassion, will change them. Is that right?
All right. So, what kind of winds now came in Noah's day? It was the wind of compassion. The world had been callous. They had suffered their destruction. For they had seen that they have got on the wrong path. They had humbled themselves a bit. To a great extent, they had humbled themselves. But they were still callous in the land. Although the government had softened, the society was still hardhearted and insensitive. Do you understand? So, G-d then blew on them, the winds of compassion. He didn't blow the wind of compassion on the mountain, did He? He didn't move the waters from the mountain by blowing the winds of compassion. Why? Because they were at fault. They were the ones responsible for the callousness that had drowned the whole world. Is that right?
So why didn't He blow out of His chest, from around His heart, the winds of compassion, to those that are callous and hardhearted, and the cause of it? No, He waits until curses had beat them into submission and forced them to change their wicked ways. Then He looked down, metaphorically speaking. Come out of that kindergarten talk. He looked down on the residue of the nation. The lowest of the low, that was still hardhearted. I know you see it. And He says, "I'll get rid of this water, by blowing on this water, the winds of compassion.
"Allahu Akbar”

