1975-May-23

Muhammad Speaks

Remake The World: Part 2

Supreme Minister W.D. Muhammad


(Editor’s note: This is the second and final part of The Supreme Minister’s April 27th, 1957 address in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.)

In the name of Allah, the Beneficent, the Merciful: Peace and blessings upon His Servant and His Messenger, Muhammad forever. Amen

As-Salaam-Alaikum

My dear brothers and sisters,
Let us go on to something else that is still on the subject of everything we perceive being “words”.
We don’t have the birth of Adam. We are told that Adam was formed from the dust of the earth, meaning that Adam existed before the earth. If he was formed from the dust of the earth, he really existed in earth form before he came into man’s shape or man’s human image.

This tells us that in the earth, or in the dust is the essence of human life, and the human life comes with the earth. If human life comes with the earth, whatever created the earth had human life in it. The human life has no beginning; it is from time undesignated. We can’t go back and (see) the time from the beginning of the human being, but in this earthly shape we say it began with the earth.

God in His language is telling us that the spirit or the life that is in the earth (the essence of the human life) existed before the earth. He tells us this by saying that when He has breathed into the man His spirit, he becomes a living soul. This means that the man was dead because he was separated from Divine, not because he didn’t exist. Once God put Divine back with him, he became a living soul.

When the man was formed on the ground, he had already lost the Divine in himself and he was already dead divinely. The breath of life was not as the Bible Genesis will make you think (the breath of Divine origin). This breath was the breath of a grafted world order. It was the breath of something false or contrary to Divine.


Man Should Not Be Alone

The man came to life and he saw a need for a wife. The Bible doesn’t say “wife” it says that the man should not be alone. The man felt lonely, he needed something for himself. The Bible says that God made for him an “help meet”. In the early part of Genesis the word “help meet” is referring to the physical environment that we come to life in. It is not referring to a woman as you have been taught. It goes on to refer to the physical environment in its higher evolution.

First there’s nothing but simple earth, crude raw creation. Later this “woman” is called the religious Church or the religious body. Also the woman is called the biological woman or man’s physical wife. But the physical wife is the least thing that this book (Bible) is talking about. The main thing that it is talking about is the Christian Church.


With The Rib A Woman Was Made

The book says that the man went into a deep sleep. After he went into a deep sleep, a rib was taken out of him. With the rib a woman was made. Do you know that there are people some of whom are intelligent who are foolish enough to really believe that this actually happened that way. This is possible because they are raised to think in such a way.

You can’t bring a man from China who was never raised in a Christian community and tell him that story and get him to accept it in that way. You’ll confuse him so much that he will speak some language that won’t even be Chinese.

God is not some weird magician that brings earth together, turns it into flesh all of a sudden, reaches in it, and then takes out a rib from a person that he has already made complete. It he needed that rib, why didn’t he leave it out in the first place?

That is a description of someone doing haphazard work or a patch up job: to take a man, say that we need a woman, then go back into the man and tear his chest open to take a rib out to make a woman.

What is written in the Genesis on Adam is wisdom and it makes a lot of sense when you interpret it rightly. But without the knowledge to read the language properly, you are lost. What is the rib and who is this Adam?


This Adam Is Jesus The Prophet

This Adam is Jesus the Prophet that God made. After making him He turned him over to the world. The man was complete and perfect when God made him, but when He turned his body (his teachings, his thoughts, his mind) over to the world, it fell under a deep sleep. It was only perfect and right as long as it was in Jesus and Jesus was with God.

Once Jesus was taken away from God (meaning that he left the world, passed away or died), the Jesus or that particular body of spiritual knowledge, wisdom, and understanding was given to the world, The world is call a god. In the world it fell under a deep sleep and began to have a desire. It felt lonely and it needed or wanted something. So the Book says in Genesis that it is not good that the man should be alone.

This means that it is not good that the early Christian community should be lonely and suffering like it was.
What god is this speaking? This is not the Creator of the heavens and the earth; this is the creator of the Church.
He’s saying that it is not good for the Christian community to be alone now because it is small, persecuted, and suffering. We have to give it a help meet. There is much in this, but we don’t have time to give it all to you. The help meet was material growth and material accumulation. The Church needed some material wealth.


A Deep Sleep

The scripture tells us that the woman was made from the rib of the man. "Rib of the man" means from one of the bones that is weak and flexible. You can bend it out of shape and it is close to the heart. The rib is close to the heart.
What bone is this and what do we mean by bone?

Bone means a body of knowledge. In divine language, bone means knowledge that is strong enough to support the moral form of the people like your bones in your body are strong enough to support your flesh. This god that is doing the work of grafting (not the real God) takes from the total body of knowledge that Jesus left in the world the weakest body of knowledge in the total body.

It was what we call sentimentality, emotionalism. That's the rib that was taken out of that body of knowledge called Jesus in Genesis to make the church. What happened is that the man (the church) turns, where it was once united with God, to his wife (the new Church). 

This new Church is not Jesus' body, but this Church is made of Jesus' body. The man turns to it and listens to it instead of listening to the God that formed Jesus himself. When this happens to the true spirit, the true mind, the wisdom body or knowledge body of Jesus? When this happened, it fell asleep. There was nothing to continue to feed it. It was no longer in touch with the Divine makeup. It only had emotionalism feeding it so it went into a deep sleep.


The Forbidden Tree

The Book says that one tree was pointed out to Adam and he was told not to eat of it because the day that he ate of it, he would surely die.

It is a mixed-up knowledge: lies mixed with truth, religious truth mixed up with religious lies. It is the tree of religious lies and religious truth growing together in one tree. When you eat the fruit of that tree you're eating a religious body of knowledge that looks like religion. But when it goes into you, there are religious lies in that truth.
It kills you spiritually, it kills you as a Divine person.

“Oh I don’t believe that. I know I’m a good Christian and it didn’t kill me. “Well, maybe you’re not dad yet, but you’re dying. If you hold on to Christianity you will soon be dead.


The Serpent: Cursed To Lick The Dust

There are three parts to the man. In the human form there is will power. There is also wit, that part of the intelligence that glorifies in its own product. It likes to show off. Wit in man was once not a showoff thing. It was humble and submissive and it was agreeable with Divine dictates. When it was in that form it was upright.

In Genesis, the serpent is described as an upright serpent before it committed sin. Remember that the serpent here is not wit, but obedient intelligence. When the serpent committed sin, it was cursed to go on its belly in the earth, according to Genesis.

This means that if you turn your intelligence into a tool to match wits with the Divine Being, you will fall down on the earth, for God will no longer feed your intelligence.

It won’t remain upright. It won’t have the power to stand up against the gravity of materialism. It will fall down on the earth, crawling like a snake, and it will be cursed to lick the dust. That means that it will be cursed to feed upon noting but materialism and that will prevent the continuation of its Divine growth.

We have in the story the will power. Originally it was will in the man that was given to creation by God from His own will. The will came into the world, became intelligent, and was upright until it rebelled against its own maker. When it rebelled against its maker, intelligence fell down to wit. Wit is not always intelligent. 

Let’s see if we can give you something that will help you to see this.
Even in our common talk today, we may speak of another person as being a low creature. Still carrying this old language from thousands of years ago, we mean that he goes like a snake on the ground out of view, crawling low so he can hide in the grass.


The Eye Of Divine Life And The Eye Of Grafted Nature

Where does hoggishness come it?
The hoggishness comes in with “the woman”. The woman in the early part of Genesis is hoggishness, the inability to control your appetite. God say not to eat certain things, but you’re so hoggish that you can’t obey Him. You have to eat everything.

So the serpent in the form of wit comes to the weak person who can’t control his hoggish appetite for everything. It won’t go right to the will power in the person. It has to go around the willpower because it knows that if it appeals to your will power, suddenly the eye and the ear of your willpower will come open and you’ll say, “No, I’m going to be stronger that this”.

So it leaves the will power sleeping and it connects to you in that form called the hoggish form of the person. It says to you that God didn’t mean that you would surely die. Your eyes will just come open and you will become on of the gods knowing both good and evil.

Just think about this. What eye is going to come open? God said that those who would eat of the forbidden tree would die. That tell us the eye of the man’s Divine life was going to close and the eye of his grafted nature (the wicked nature) was going to open. He was going to begin seeing with wicked, low, filthy eyes. He would begin hearing with the ears of wickedness and filth. So it only means that the man’s Divine nature would die and his weak nature would come alive.

We have a thing happening to the man that is really bringing him down beneath the lowest creatures of the earth. His willpower dies and his hoggish nature takes over because his will stood up to justify self-destruction. Are the willpower, the wit, and the hoggish nature separate things? No, all of these are in everybody.


“I Will Put Enmity Between Thee And The Woman”

In the human history we can read the effects of two decisions, two judgments, or two choices; the individual and the Divine. The individual choice leads to the loss of will power, the loss of intelligent development, and the enslavement to the hoggish nature of the human being.

Genesis chapter 3, verse 14 says, “Because thou hast done this, thou are cursed above all cattle and above every beast of the field; upon thy belly shalt thou go and dust shalt thou eat all the days of thy life; and I will put enmity between thee and the woman”

The “woman” here is the Church made from the body of knowledge we call the Jesus.
There is going to be enmity (hatred) put between the Church and the true Jesus. It says, “And between your seed and her seed.”
This means that every time an innocent person in religion (Christianity) comes up with truth or finds a bit of truth and tries to show that truth to the Church, the Church is going to fight him. If he is killed and his seed grows up, a seed from the Church is going to be there to fight that seed.

“Is a Church that bad?”
The Bible says that it shall bruise your head and you shall bruise its heel.
The head is the Divine body of knowledge meaning that it shall corrupt that Divine body of knowledge. What is the heel? The heel is the innocent people, the weak people, those that are called dumb or uneducated people in religion. How are they going to be bruised? They are going to be hurt because they don’t have enough knowledge to deal with the body that is given to them called “Jesus”. It’s going to mess them up.


The Church Is Cursed

Genesis chapter 3 verse 17 says, “And unto Adam he said, Because thou hast hearkened unto the voice of thy wife, and hast eaten of the tree, of which I commanded thee, saying, Thou shalt not eat of it: cursed is the ground for thy sake; in sorrow shalt thou eat of it all the days of thy life;”

Who is this Adam that is cursed?
This Adam is the one that was dead before. It says that he went into a deep sleep, so he was asleep before the Church was made from him. This body of knowledge, the Church comes now into what we call the doctrine or consciousness of the Church. In the man after he goes to sleep, Jesus is gone and we have the doctrine carrying on the Church. This doctrine now also has a conscience that goes along with it.

That Church conscience is plagued with the corruption that has come into Christianity and it can’t live on the real Divine truth. It has to live also on the physical things. The Church’s strength is collections, harps, organs, trumpets, drums, electric guitars, physical shouting and a lot of physical noise. It’s cursed now to go back to these physical things for its very life.
The Genesis has been corrupted, but it’s not so corrupted that we can’t bring the truth out of it.


The Genesis Of The Church

Genesis chapter 3, verse 18 says, “Thorns also and thistles shall it bring forth to thee; and thou shalt eat the herb of the field;” meaning the weak people or the ignorant people of the Church. An herb is something that is not strong like a tree. It bends with the wind. The Church body that rules over the Church is going to have to feed upon the weak of religion and upon material things.

Genesis chapter 5, verse 2 says, “Male and female created he them; and blessed them, and called their name Adam, in the day when they were created.” 
We have a clue here.
It is telling us that Adam is not a single person, but a community of people. In chapter 5 the community is identified. It says that He named them “Adam”.

This is not the creation or the Genesis of one person, from which was taken a female and began the creation or the spread of people on earth as physical beings, but this is the Genesis of a religious order. What we really have here is the Genesis of the Church.


A Third Part Of You Shall Be Porters Of The Doors

The 2nd Chronicles, chapter 23, verse 4 says, “This is the thing that ye shall do; A third part of you entering on the Sabbath, of the priests and of the Levites, shall be porters of the doors;”

I’m only bringing you this to tie it in with the earlier reference I gave you from Genesis to show you that we have clear proof in the Bible for the preacher when you go back to him and tell him what I told you. He’ll say, “Them Muslims don’t know what they’re talking about. You be a good Christian and don’t listen to them. They don’t believe in God.” You tell him to come to us and tell us that.

It says in the 2nd Chronicles, chapter 23, verse 4, “ A third part shall be porters at the door”. What is this third part” It is the poor and ignorant people of the religion. They shall serve in inferior position because they don’t have knowledge to serve in higher positions.

The 2nd Chronicles, chapter 23, verse 5 says, “And a third part shall be at the king’s house, and a third part at the gate of the foundation”.
Let’s tie this in with the person and then tie it in with the bigger picture.


The Second And The Final Third

Then there’s the second third. The second part identifies the intellectuals, the wise outside of the church. 

Those wise outside of the Church are still in the religious order and still in the Christian society. They will be the ones to serve as judges. They will control the knowledge in the land and make judgment. Then you have the final third that will uphold the foundation.

The foundation is the wise in the Church who understand a higher language in Christianity than you understand. They can’t let you come into the higher language of the Christian religion because you wouldn’t listen to the baby language that they’re giving you on Sunday.

So to hold you, they keep the high adult language for themselves and give you the baby language. They are the ones that keep the foundation of the Church in existence. They keep it established and strong by denying the poor and ignorant people the knowledge that is adult knowledge and by giving you baby knowledge.


The Pope Has Ruled America

From the individual we see a design of the basic form of the broad community. An individual has willpower, intelligence, wit, and he has the appetite or the hunger for things. There are people that are slaves to hoggish appetites. The wise in the Church say that they will feed on those people because they won’t have sense to manage their wealth. They will get it and turn it right back into the Church’s hands. They will never be able to defeat their oppressors because they will be nothing but big animals, and men know how to kill animals.

There is another group of Church people that the wise in the Church won’t let come into the high knowledge of the religions order, but they will allow them to get a lot of schooling in government. The wise will give them just a little bit of their knowledge and they will serve the wise as their government, but the wise will rule over them all.

If you don’t think the Pope and the Bishops rule America, you’ve got another thought coming. The government can’t do anything with the Pope. They can’t do anything with the Christian Church collectively because the Christian Church and Catholicism and Protestantism are too strong among the masses. These religious institutions control the masses. If the government want one thing and the religious leaders want another, the government can’t do it over the heads of the religious leaders – not until this day and time.

In the past they couldn’t do it because the government was committed to the religious leaders and in return the religious leaders would give them their political backing. But what happened?


The Bright Sun Of Islam Is On the Scene For Good

The light of true Divine wisdom came upon the scene and it began feeding the poor (the porters), those that were given the low jobs. It began feeding them with Divine understanding, waking up the ignorant masses (the donkey of the religious world).

It made the donkey speak with man’s voice. The government people over a period of time recognized that there was another religious voice in the land and that meant the Church had some real competition.

They long ago recognized that the Church had grown to be a very weak force over the people. They had been losing the people because they themselves are lost. Now the government is not so quick to obey the Pope. It is not so quick to listen to the voice of the religious leaders in Christianity:

“Shut up those Muslims, don’t let them rent your halls. They can’t grow if you don’t rent them a nice place to have meetings in. They can’t grow meeting in little store-fronts and in their homes. Don’t let them have the big places.

The government obeyed them for a long time, but now they don’t obey them anymore because they realize that, that bright sun of Islam is on the scene for good. A few wise ones in the government realize now that the enemy, of not only the masses but the enemy of government is the false Christian religion. They won’t admit this to you. They can’t afford to.


There Is A True Mission Of Religion On The Scene

They know that there is a true mission of religion on the scene. They know that we can bring the masses up out of social death and decay and bring them back into social life and growth and put them back on the road to producing things for their own will-being. The government is no longer strong enough to carry millions of people as dependants and unproductive hang-alongs.

Because it is no longer able and no longer willing to carry the great masses of ignorant people who are unproductive, it is now willing to let the masses go into any safe hands. They used to see the Christian leaders as the only safe hands for the masses, but now they see that the Temple of Islam in America is a safer hand for the masses than was the Christian Church or the Christian leader of the Church.


We Give You Divine Wisdom

We don’t want you in the Nation of Islam to suck your blood or to empty your pockets and send you out to go back and get some more for us. We want you to empty your pockets so that the money will go into one pocket, whereas by yourself you have one small pocket. If many of us empty our small pockets into one pocket, we will all share in one big pocket.

We don’t leave the Muslim Believers in the Temple of Islam poor, ragged, out-or-doors, ignorant, immoral, sick, blind deaf and dumb. We turn the wheels of your mind over and give you the fuel that you need to keep those wheels turning over, we give you Divine Wisdom. Then you grow stronger mentally, morally, and spiritually. You become a total person. You’re not satisfied to be one-third, you have to have all the three parts in you.

You’re not satisfied just to be taken over by only emotionalism. You like to feel good alright, but a Muslim will not be satisfied with just feeling good in religion. He has to be able to believe and see himself as one not only feeling good, but one thinking good. He has to believe that he is able to reason rightly. He takes pride in that other third the body of knowledge, the intelligence, the intellectual part of the being. He’s not satisfied to remain on any one level no matter how wise he gests in Islam. He still wants to climb up a little higher.

He also has another third that rules over the other two-thirds. That’s his Divine willpower. He’s not satisfied to neglect it either. He fasts during the month of Ramadan so that his willpower will grow stronger. He tests his will with the forces of the flesh. The flesh says, “Give me some food. Give me some water and some juice and some milk. I’m hungry and hurting and I’m thirsty.” The willpower says, “No you can’t have it until sundown.”

After 30 days in that month of training against the power of the flesh, the willpower comes out strong enough to go for another 11 months without falling victim to the powers of the flesh. We don’t deny any of our basic functions that work together in the total being. We cultivate them all.


Dust To Industry

What has happened in the world to those original concepts and ideas that we’ve just described to you in the individual makeup that are also in the social makeup of the world? They have fallen down to terms like Church, government, and industry.

You wouldn’t believe that the Trinitarian Doctrine (the three-in-one) had really grown from Genesis from willpower, intellect, and desire to come into the form that we see in the world today: religion, government, and industry. The Bible shows us the growth and the development of the religious community from dust to industry. Can we prove this? Yes.

In the beginning in Genesis, the man begins from dust. In Revelations of the Bible, the man has become a city. I hope a wise preacher reads this who will be able to understand what I’m saying and go back and teach the religion the way it should be taught.


Who Is The Father Of Jesus?

In the early parts of the New Testament, Jesus is called a body, a person, a manifestation of God in the flesh. This is the religious community. It is a manifestation of Divine Will in material form. The Divine dwells in the people, Jesus said that the kingdom is within you. Jesus said, “I in you and you in me. I in my father and my father in me”. He made these all one. This is the community, not one person.

He referred to himself as one in three because he represented that third (the ministry, the religious head).

Who was the father that he was talking about? What produced him? It was the physical world. It produced the physical part of him just as we think of a Creator creating us physically. Father here is the original body of knowledge that exists in the Holy people (the Divine people) that gave birth to Jesus.

“This man is saying that some people of the world taught  Jesus.” Yes, I am. The Bible says he was taught as a child. It doesn’t say that only God taught him. Jesus went to school. The Great Master Fard Muhammad went to school. The Honorable Elijah Muhammad went to school. 

You go to school and learn so much that God blesses you with Divine interpretation and you become master over the school that you were in. So in the Genesis and in the New Testament also, we have a father manifesting a son which is Jesus. The father is the religious body of knowledge (that Divine mind) in the form of the supreme religious teachings or supreme wisdom that formed Jesus from early childhood.

That body or knowledge is called God because it is of God. It is of God in the sense of being the word of God. After Jesus was formed of that God, the Creator (the Divine word of scripture) he himself became a flesh manifestation of that Divine word or that Divine body of knowledge. But he had to go to school. He didn’t go to spooks to get it; he went to people to get it.

The Holy Quran says that if there has been a community of angels on earth, God would have sent an angel to them as a prophet. But there was not a community of angels on earth, there was a community of men and women. So God sent them a man as a prophet. It makes sense. Angels know angels, men know men.


The Dust And The Woman Are Cursed

Let us go back to the curses that we have in Genesis. Let’s see if we can recognize these curses in our world today. Those curses grew from small curses to big curses, from small sins to big sins, and from small consequences to big consequences.

We have dust being brought up into industry. That dust or ground that was cursed, we can now see in industry: industry has polluted our drinking water and our breathing air.

Lets go to the other curse. It says that also the woman would be cursed. The woman represent the Church. The Church is not bricks, the Church is people. Without the people you don’t have a church. The word Church only means congregation. Here the religious, flesh and blood living people are cursed too.

How do we see their curse today? We see their curse in the absence of their willpower and their weakness for material things. They can’t separate themselves from hog eating, from whiskey drinking, from eating three meals a day, from wearing Superfly clothes, from putting all their efforts on how to get a new suit, a new dress, a new pair of shoes, or a hat or something. So they are cursed with the hoggish appetite that was condemned in Genesis.


The Burden Of Your Terrible Christian Understanding

This hoggish appetite keeps them at the bottom of the economic scale. Other people are working too just like you are. Some of them don’t have as high paying jobs as you have. Yet they are able to do more than you with their income, (I’m talking about other ethnic groups). With $100 a week, pretty soon they have a bank account or a little small business. Soon they are out of the labor field, they are a proprietor.

You might get $100 more a week than that man from the other ethnic group, but you can never get anywhere because every week you have to buy something or you have to let a bill go unpaid.

Why? Because the other ethnic group doesn’t have the burden of you terrible Christian understanding. They are not all emotional. They have a living intelligence in their body that rules over their emotionalism and their material greed. It denies the flesh some of the things that it is asking for in hopes of making the whole body more secure tomorrow. We haven’t been trained to secure ourselves for the future.

Many of us come into thousands of dollars and hurry up to spend them like we think we’re getting ready to die. We don’t have the sense of an ant who will store up something for his babies that are coming tomorrow. We have children coming up behind us, but we rush to spend everything that we have.

Some of you have gotten wise in these late years. I don’t mean to say that all of us have always been fools like that, but on the whole we have been fools. That’s why we haven’t had anything until today.


We Are One Body With One Head

You don’t have to make a whole lot of money to get economically strong. If you take your money and use it wisely, pretty soon you’ll get out of the labor field and come into the management and business field as a business owner.

You have to come to the Nation of Islam to learn how to do that because this world of business has grown to be a collective operation. It just doesn’t operate anymore on the strength of individual business people. One businessman just can’t make it. But if all the people come together and form a big corporation they can deal with other big corporations. We can survive and God has formed us to survive. He has shown us where the strengths and the weaknesses are in the old world and has given us the love for each other to come and join together as one family, as one body with one head. All of us are nothing but members in that body.

We work together to feed, clothe, and shelter our body. We are successful because we are doing what Almighty God has designed for us to do and He has now brought it about.


The Mission Of The Nation Of Islam

We want to make it very clear to you what this mission is all about. We are here to remake the world: not just the world of temples, but the world of America and the whole world outside of America. We know just why the world has failed and we know where to charge the failure to. We have the answers.

The mission of the Nation of Islam is to restore the total man, the social life, the total community. Pollution of land, air, and sea is a problem for this world, but it doesn’t discourage us. We are not going to give up the city and go to some artificial garden of Eden to eat wild berries, to wear sneakers and long beards and go without baths. We haven’t given up on civilization – we started it. We’re going to give birth again and keep it going.

The Divinely appointed world saviours that we call “messengers” and “prophets” made the world. Those that went astray from their gardens remade it in an unnatural and unhealthy way. Because of that we suffer.

The human community, materially speaking grows from Adams dust to a Divine community called “New Jerusalem” in the revelations. New Jerusalem is a description of a city or a community with all that is necessary for a whole world society. It is a city government coming down from the sky. That means that it will come from  high principles, high moral thinking, and Divine mind down to the low mind of the ignorant and the poor who were robbed by those who used to be in the sky pretending to be the heavens of God. That’s the false religious people.

This community is a progression from dust to industry. We’re not here to bring together a community of spirits. Spirits are only one-third of the human form. We are here to bring together a community of total people.


New Jerusalem Is Here

You don’t have to look for New Jerusalem anymore to come down from the sky. New Jerusalem is here. The term “city” is a concept incorporating all the basic and vital functions of a society: family life, education and religion (which should be the life blood of the total society”.

Religion has grown so weak over the period of the development of the Church and the Synagogue that it has now become less than a third in the vital workings of the social world that we call the human family. It is nothing now but a sham, an escape from the real work of living that God Almighty cut out for people.

When real living gets too hard for us, we run into a false world we call “Christianity” that is nothing but a whole lot of false emotionalism. Then we satisfy ourselves by doing nothing but making noise in Church on Sunday.

We come back out Monday morning and start the same old life all over again. That’s false belief. Muslims don’t run away from the job of life. When we come to the temple we come to reorganize to get a firmer grip on the harness. We ride the horse of life a little faster after we leave the Temple of Islam. The world dies when people lose sight on the real ideas, the natural Divine ideas, the true concepts of the vital and natural functions in the human makeup.

You have to learn the true and natural functions in your human form: the things that are operating to make you operate well. Then you design your world after that design because the Creator Himself made it. The wise man is the man who has more than one vision. Fools can only look out (sight). Wise people can look in (insight).


The Universe Is Our Home

The world dies because people lose sight on the true concepts and true ideas of the vital and natural functions in the life which work to produce the basic institutions of home life, schools, and worship. Worship is not a whole thing for the Muslims. Worship is something that we incorporate into our whole life. We go to the place of worship, not out of the world, but we worship God all the time.

When we get up in the morning after we’ve been laid off of one job and go look for another, we are worshipping God. God has commanded us not to sit in the earth as a stone or a mineral. He gave us life and commanded that we move, so we’re not going to sit at home and be a mineral on the earth. We’re not going to sit at home and be a plant just growing in one spot. No we’re going to spread out.

The human being is given the freedom to get up out of the soil. He stays in one place for a while and builds it up, then he gets out and builds up somewhere else.

Muslims know that Allah has not ordained that we be mineral and plants. We are men with freedom to move with a broader field of movement than any of the other created things. In fact, our field of movement is so broad that we call the universe our home and everything in it are tools form our service.


The Nation Of Islam Has Been Formed By God

We have to remake the world brothers and sisters. If the job is not yours and mine, tell me somebody that’s worthy to take this job. Nobody knows to what extent the world has been messed up better than you and me because no other people have been messed up in it more than you and me.

If the job were left to the Asian people, they could do it as far as Asian problems and understanding of those problems would permit them to go. If African were allowed to do it, they could go as far as African problems and knowledge of the cause of those problems would allow them to go. But nobody, brothers and sisters have as many problems as you and I have had, and nobody understands what human suffering is all about like you and I know it.

Nobody on earth has been as emptied of everything that naturally should be a part of them as you and I have been emptied. How can somebody outside of us do a job of remaking the world as well as we could do it?

The Nation of Islam will come into this work with Divine knowledge of the proper use of the material graces. We won’t misuse them. We have the right knowledge of how they are to be used. We are a balanced people and we have been formed by God, as the Holy Quran says, “In due proportions”. We are not too heavy on one side and too light on the other. No, we have our Trinitarian makeup will in balance.

With the knowledge of the old world’s bad judgment in the use of these material things, we will work for progress in all human fields. We will work against spiritualism and those dispositions and attitudes that work to corrupt the thinking and the mind of the people. We will work against the things that bring about further corruption of the whole society and end up in even the corruption of the physical environment.


We Will Work For Progress

When you study the growth of the grafted mentality, you find it growing. As it grows, it first corrupts the moral life of the people. Later you find that the intelligence (the mind, the intellectual body of knowledge) becomes corrupt. After it becomes corrupt and loses its power, lastly you hear the news that the air is poison or the lake is poison.

But look how it started. It started with the individual. It started with a community of people who were supposed to be responsible for the world community. They were supposed to be responsible to Almighty God, the Creator, to lead it right.

They gave us Christianity, they taught us democracy, and they promised us the blessings of Christianity and democracy. But what have they left us with; nothing. The Church failed and the institutions of learning failed. Now they want to reorder the institutions of learning and church people want to translate the Bible again. They even want to let hippies help them translate the Bible.

They are in bad shape.
The material heaven that the democracy promised turned out to be nothing but a warning that we are moving closer and closer to our doom if we didn’t reorder our world. We’re going to kill humanity with industrial corruption and pollution ( This is what they say). We’re going to remake this world for them because we know where to go to start remaking it.

We don’t go to his polluted environment; we don’t go to his weak Church; and we don’t go to his weak school system. We go to the individual from whom the design for the whole society from the very beginning was taken. We go back to the individual and start from a unit, add 2 to it, add 3 to it, and go on up to 9 and 10. Then we start adding zeroes and zeroes and pretty soon we will have something bigger than his. We will be on top of it all.

We don’t have to hide anything. He’s too far behind in Divine understanding to catch up. We can tell him where we’re going and he still can’t catch up. All he can do is watch us and wait for our movements to signal to him what he should do. With the knowledge of the old world’s bad judgment and the use of the material graces, we will work for progress in all human fields.


Muhammad Is The Leader For The Whole World

The growth or the evolution of prophethood from Adam to Muhammad is a movement from the raw, unborn man to the sophisticated, highly educated, civilized, Divine man. He comes from dust, from primitive society, learning how to clean his cooking utensils, how to wear clean clothes, and how to look after his physical health. He comes from that to a total human being. He has then grown in all the dimensions of the total man that God was creating.

Muhammad now stands up on the earth as the Crown of Creation. The whole world has to acknowledge that Muhammad is the Crown of Creation and that there is nothing in the created world more royal or more regal than Muhammad. He is the ruler and he is the leader for the whole world. God said in the beginning that He was going to make a ruler in the earth. He didn’t say He made his man to live under other people.

I’m talking about God’s man now, - not the one that conquered God’s man and made a grafted man. God said that He was going to make a man from the dust of the earth (from the lowest of the people) and when He had breathed into him of His spirit (Divine Mind), the scientist of the world, the wise, the stiff-necked and proud who think they know it all and gave been casting their wits against His revealed knowledge, they all must drop their books and bow down to His man. All praise is due to Allah.


The Bright Light Of Divine

According to the Holy Quran, when the wise scientists were ordered to submit to God’s man that He Himself had made wise with His own Mind, one among them said he refused. He wouldn’t bow down to that which God had made from black mud fashioned into shape. He wouldn’t submit to bow down to God’s man because he said that God had made him of fire and not mud. The Holy Quran says that the beings of fire, or the Jinn were made before. (That is before the man was made to be the Crown of Creation). The scientist of the world think that they have made themselves.

But they are blind children using our tools. The Jinn boast that God made him before He made His man. The Jinn say that they were before Muhammad and that they will not submit to him. They say that they came up the hard way and they got their knowledge by their own efforts. They say they are not men of the spirit or Divine man, they say they are men of knowledge. They say they don’t submit to any religious teacher and that no religious leader will tell them what to do.

Fire means a body of knowledge that is of the world. Men like to look at it and be near it because it gives them warmth. They use it to cook their food and to do things for themselves. They use it to light their world so they can see. We don’t call electric bulbs fire, but they’re fire too. If you don’t believe it, go put your hand on one of them and you’ll see how hot it is. The light of the world is also fire. The scientists have build their body of knowledge. They say that their knowledge is the light of the world and that they had it before this Muhammad came on the scene.

They ask how are they going to be told to submit to a religious man? They say that he preaches well and he might be sincere, but he doesn’t have that much sense. “We’re scientists”. God says that nevertheless, He knows something they don’t know. “I now that  that you know not.” After He has made His man and breathed His mind into his head, He told him to tell them (the proud rebellious scientist) their names.

That means to identify him so he can see himself. Since God’s man has His wisdom, he can now direct it to this rebellious scientist and tell him how he came into being and tell him what he has done to this world. God says to shine this light into his light, put out the scientist’s light with the bright light of Divine, and destroy him with light. All praise is due to Allah.


Muslims Are In The Body Christ

Brothers and sisters, you are living in the time of the end of the old world and the making of the new world. You are welcome to come into the community of the New Jerusalem. The Muslims are now in the Body of Christ. You are the second Christ. You are that Christ that was to come in the end. You have appeared out of the clouds of the darkness of this world and you have manifested as a bright light to light the whole world – north, east, west and south.

You have not been formed and returned to your glory after crucifixion and death just to sit around here and be a light to America. No, you’re going to rise up so high that they will see your light all around the world. Believe it or not.

We have purposely carried this subject in the manner of a conversation or a private home – sitting where we are just sharing knowledge and experiences. We have done it that way purposely so that you will finish it with more knowledge and more understanding and so that you will finish it feeling closer to the members of your body in this one whole body, the Body of the New Christ.

Brothers and sisters, go tell the church people that the Christ that they have been looking for to come down out of the clouds has already come down. Tell them in the words of their own Bible that it is not a flesh and blood body. It’s a city, a whole community. We call it the Nation of Islam and it has many flesh members in its one body. Tell them they will not see any other Christ coming ; this is the Christ. Tell them if they don’t believe it, come to the head and find out.


Christ Is Here

You have been told in the Church and it has come down by tradition from generation to generation that Jesus will judge the world and justify those who have been mistreated and abused in the world when he comes. That’s our job and that’s what we’re doing. We are that Christ. You have also been told that when Jesus comes his light will be so bright that all eyes will see him.

There have been no people so spiritually, morally, and intellectually blind and dumb (void of knowledge) as you and I have been. Our coming into light is readily noticed by people all over the world because they have know us to be a spiritually, intellectually, and morally dark community.

But now Allah’s light is coming to us and He has manifested His presence in us. They see our light and our light is noticed by everybody all over the world. Everybody that sees this change that has come over us can bear witness. They say, “Yes, we must admit that they are a new people. We must admit that they have something special.”

Already we have words coming to us from outside telling us that they recognize that we are, and the great wealth that you have.

We can get up on the air and don’t have to wait for any commercial airlines to take us. We get in our own jet and take off when we get ready. We have our own brother as a pilot. He is a man born and raised in the Nation of Islam. He’s a jet pilot and he’s a captain.

Right now there’s a problem in America of neglecting the aged. Many nursing homes have been exposed to be nothing but torture houses for the old people.

We have a million and a half dollars already put up that we are not going to touch until a nursing home goes up in Chicago for the aged. We also have a plan to build factories and we’re going to build factories. We have plans to build a skyscraper.

We want a monument as a testimony for the presence of the Great Masters W.F. Muhammad and Elijah Muhammad among us.


We’re Not Depending Upon Anybody But Allah

You may think that we are not going to do this, but I say that we are. The Honorable Master Elijah Muhammad said, “Yes I am.” They said, “No, he can’t.” He said, “Yes I an.” He did it and their mouths are shut now. What we’re saying is going to shut your mouth too, because we’re going to make it a reality. We’re not depending upon anybody but Allah to bring it forth.

“You need some help of people in the community to do it. You can’t do it without their help.” That’s true, but their help is not in their own hands. Allah has the power to make them help against their will.

It says in the Holy Quran that Allah created the heavens and the earth to bring into form planets, stars, and communities on the earth. God says to come willingly or come unwillingly. We see they’re up there and we’re down here.

That’s a word of advice to you today, letting you know that the same power has decreed that this good work must be done. God is saying to come into being willingly or unwillingly.

When you come into Islam and as you begin to understand our new language and learn to live this life, something happens to you that is truly miraculous. Some or you might think it’s spooky, but there is nothing spooky about it. Even your brain works better.

If you have been slow and dull, just stay around here and you’ll get sharper. There’s no such thing as a dead thing that God can’t give life to. I don’t care what it is, if He want to give life to it He can.


This Is the Day Of Scriptural Light

I don’t know if you can hear me or not, Mr. Pope in the Vatican. Tell all you bishops, your churches, all the denominations and all your leader: your Christ is here and if you don’t recognize him you home will soon be left desolate. Not only will it be desolate, but it will vanish off the face of the earth. The time of scriptural darkness has come to an end. This is the day of scriptural light.

If they continue to try to uphold darkness, they will be wiped from the face of the earth (not with physical weapons) with the bright light of truth. It is a light that acts as a fire and burns up falsehood.

Thank you for honoring us with your time to read these few words. Peace be unto you. In the greetings of all the prophets from Abraham to Muhammad. As-Salaam-Alaikum.

W.D. Muhammad
Supreme Minister

_______________________________________________________________



The Wisdom Of W. D. Muhammad:

Believe it or not, the church has been the stronghold of the power of white supremacy and diabolic consciousness. I am not talking about Christians, I am talking about the image of the devil that came in the false language of the Church and is backed up by a Caucasian image to support the white mentality.

The problem with the church is not the beautiful teaching of the Master Jesus (may peace be upon Him), the problem is the interpretation (symbolic language) that is organized in the Bible and in the Christian language to advance color consciousness for the rule of white supremacy all over the world.

Today, we have sounded the death knell for white supremacy. We expose the Dravidian roots to the criminal and to the victim. White supremacist mentality is being destroyed by the fire of Divine Truth, root and branch, never to plague the mind of man again.
