MARCH 28, 1975 
MUHAMMAD SPEAKS 
THE LAST SERMON  

(The following article is the transcript of the Honorable Elijah Muhammad's, may the peace and blessings of Allah be upon Him, 1974 Saviour's Day Address: The Last Sermon.) 
By Elijah Muhammad 
Messenger of Allah 

MY BELOVED BROTHERS and sisters, we have here today a very beautiful day from Allah. We are a people that do not think that we are big 'I's; we think that we are little 'I's, and not big 'I's. 

We're so greatly blessed by Allah, and by you visiting us that we cannot help but to be happy and proud of your presence. 

WE WANT YOU to know that you have seen the setting of the Sun, but that Sun is rising again. It set, but she is rising again, bringing us a new day. The coming of God, the coming of our Saviour. He's not a spook. I want you to know that we are trying our best, since we have met face to face with God, in trying to remove from you that old idea that God is some spirit that is formless. We want you to get out of that old slavery idea.  

This is all-wise use of a pronoun, calling Him, 'He. You feel pretty cheap calling Him 'she'; you feel pretty cheap just to say, 'spirit." You've got to say, 'He.' I am here to tell you that He's not a she nor is He some formless spirit. 

The Bible says of the DAY OF JUDGMENT you will see God as He is. This is the day that I can gladly say that He is a 'He. There are many people that have not known God, and there are many people that know Him.  The white race knows Him. The white race knows God, but they cannot represent God, as you and me know, they'd be giving away the power to rule. 

THEY WERE NOT to rule under the teachings of reality of God; they were made to hide the reality of God in order that they themselves can be worshiped. I don't get angry with them the way that they rule and what they teach. 

How in the world can they teach and turn us away from the God of reality? they get the rule they've got to take us away because we've got the reality. Every time you look at the Black man you're looking at God. 

Some of you say "No, I'm no god and you're no god. Okay, get your god and show him to me. You can't do that; you say that god is a spirit, show him to me. You cannot show me your spirit god!  

Then you say he's not to be seen, well then, I don't want to see him if he doesn't want to see me. We worship that which we know; you worship that which you want. We're not going to hold your attention to this kind of subject, we've got lots of work to do. 

FOR 43 YEARS, I have been teaching that God is man. For 43 years I have been teaching you that one day you'll wake up and know;  you'll wake up and agree with me. From the looks of your numbers here today, it seems that you're waking up. 

The professors and scholars over at the colleges and universities would look and laugh if you would tell them to go and worship something that they don't know anything about, and I don't blame them. 

We're very happy we have with us two great scientists sitting over here to my right. They are great scientists visiting us. 

If we had been worshiping the space, the atmosphere for God, they would not have taken a seat over there.  We are truly happy to be honored by them. We are glad that they are visiting us to know that the spiritual Sun is vice versa itself, rising from the west. 

ALLAH HAS COME to raise us up to give us kingdoms. The Bible says it's His own good will to do so. He takes the kingdom from whom He pleases and gives it to whom He pleases. So we have to take what He's now giving to us to take. 

Get up, brothers and sisters, and recognize your brother who was lost and is now found.  Get up, give him a place at home. Come on in brothers Praise be to Allah;  he was lost, now he's found. He was dead, now he's alive. Come on in brothers: have a seat brothers, put him on top! 

SINCE THE COMING of God, in the Person of Master Fard Muhammad, and Him teaching you and me that He has searched the earth for us, we cannot sit down, we must not lie down; we must get up and go to work. We want to thank the Chicago white people for making it possible for us to obtain the South Shore country club. For it was impossible for us to get in such position where we can prove ourselves worthy of freedom.  They have done us a great favor. I don't think that we should have anything to do but honor and thank them for putting us in such a position. This is their armory and we're here teaching the truth.  (Editor's note: The above references to the South Shore Country Club were made at a time when the Honorable Elijah Muhammad had been assured of it's availability for the use of the Nation of Islam.) They're not objecting to me teaching the truth, as there are white Muslims in America, and lots of them.  We have them all over the world and they recognize and respect you. You must recognize and respect them. You don't disrespect people who are trying to respect you.

I REMEMBER the last time that I was out at the airport;  they let me and my followers get on first. Now remember, their flag is still flying over America; honor and respect the man, because He still has this land. 

There is much that can be interchanged between them and us in that way of respect. We don't have to get up to try to take from them just because you have learned yourself,  and now you have learned them. Just remember that they show you respect after you have learned yourself, show them respect too, because when you didn't know yourself you didn't respect self or anyone else. We were a disgrace to ourselves and them too because we didn't know ourselves and them.  But now we respect ourselves and we respect them. Praise be to Allah. 

We don't go out and disrespect the owners of this land as long as they are in power. I think that you would be showing disrespect for high honor that has been conferred on you and me by God. 

RESPECT EVERYBODY, everybody will respect you. This I mean from my heart; everywhere we go respect people and people will respect you. Don't think that you're so great now just because God promised you the Kingdom; wait until you get in. 

Again you must remember that by the ruler being dishonorable and dishonoring people; he's dishonoring himself. My beloved brothers and sisters, He does not mean for us to waste our time looking to see who can we make mockery of, looking and trying to show people up. 

WE MUST show the world that we are a righteous people trying to set up the characteristics of people of righteousness. We don't want our people acting unrighteous regardless to who acts unrighteous to us. We owe ourselves since we represent ourselves as being righteous people. 

If we say there goes the devil, then don't try to fashion after him if you say you're righteous. Show the devil that you're righteous because he's watching you. 

Let us remember these words, that there is much you must learn to do to show forth in the world who we are. We were not raised to sit around and make mockery of people; we were raised to show the world what righteousness looks like and what it feels like to be righteous. 

EVERY MAN looks for the one who will lift him and put him on the right road: this is a wonderful Man. In the Bible He said to Israel, I am your God. 

Now He says to you and I, 'Remember my faith that I bestowed upon you. Take a lesson from Me that if I bestow upon Israel those great blessings, what do you think I'm going to do for you? If I blessed Israel to bring her from out of the bondage of Pharaoh, what you think I'm going to do for you? 

I found Israel in the wasteland and I found you in the wasteland and you are my own. So if God says, and He has said, that we belong to Him, all Praise is due to Allah. 

'I only wanted to show to Israel that I am God. So, this same thing, brothers and sisters, has come to us. I want to show you, O my lost-found, that He that found you and me is God. He owns us and He wants to do for you that which will stand forever. 

THE EARTH belongs to you; it didn't belong to you but now you are the true owner. It was taken away from you; come on, I want to give it back. The lost and found has been lost from his brethren for a long time. 

Now he is found and bring him in and sit him in the midst of his brother,  tell him this is your home. So today, you're on your way to become the owner and ruler of the earth. 

Once you lay hold to that handle, that will not break off, you must keep it. You don't have to worry about the people coming to you: they all will come to you. As the Bible teaches you: 'Look and see, they all come to thee."  

A VERY BEAUTIFUL people that has been marred and spoiled, but as you come into  Islam, Allah will gradually restore your beautiful appearance. You will become a beautiful Nation that never before lived on the earth. If you don't like any ugly part about you, He says He will cause you to grow into a new growth.  

WHAT MUST BE DONE? We have God with us; we have Him as our guide.  We don't have to sit around here and ask the question, "What must be done?" Get up and let's go and do something! We're trying to do something with whatever the white folks will let us have. 

We're trying to do something with it to make them feel that they didn't give it over to a bunch of lazy fellows that wanted to sit down and turn our face back to them, begging them to carry on right on. When you have been given a chance to do for self, do for self.

I SAY THAT the Black man in North America has nobody to blame but himself. If he respects himself and will do for himself, his once slave-master will come and respect him and help him to do something for self.

You cannot say that they don't help you do something for self. They're helping us to go for ourselves. Who would want to help an old horse that doesn't want to do anything but lie down in the lot? Why it's really disgusting!

Rouse him up and tell him to get up, if you can't pull the tractor pull the plow. I don't believe in us now, in this modern time lying down on the white man looking for him to give us something. He gave us something when he gave us freedom.

That's all you wanted, to be free to do something for self. Well, now that you have that don't lie down around his doorstep asking him to help you; go help yourself. That's right! He's taken the shackles off of you, and you are free, go for yourself.

WHY SHOULD YOU still lie under his gate saying "Give me, give me"?, give you nothing! That's the truth. What is he going to give you now after he let you go free to get for yourself? 

You don't need to blame him now; blame yourself! The earth is large, and there is enough of it for you to have some and for them to have some. 

IF GOD WANTS to continue to help them to live on this earth, you just have the part that He gives you, and don't be worried over it. Take that which God gives you and that only. Go to war with no man for that of his own. No, you don't fight anybody over what is theirs. Just get yours and keep yours and let him keep his. 

If God gives it to him, that's between him and God. God, just give me some. Now God has given me something; let us do the best we can with what He has given to us. 

Take somebody's property? — take nothing. Just take that which God has given to you and make something out of it. You take nothing — you go to war with no man! No — you go to war with yourself. Trying to rob people out of their own — that's wrong. The earth is too large. Well, he has taken it from me you say. Well, you let him do it. I don't blame him... if you're going to let him take it, well, that's okay. 

I SAY TO YOU, my beloved brothers and sisters — Allah has loaned us. All we have to do is go to work and try and make the best out of what He has given to us, and stop looking at other people's property, looking for them to give you theirs. You don't take anything. 

"Well, he has taken it from me and he has taken if from my brothers." Well, if he has taken it from the Indians, let the Indians fight for his own. 

One thing I can bear witness with the white man—the Indian wasn't doing anything with it. 

Not that I said that because I hate the Indians, who were lost. No, I love the Indians, but he was not smart enough to keep his home, so he let a stranger take it. Well, we're strangers too. We must have some of this earth that we can call our own; and regardless to who he is, we've got to have some of this earth. We've got to have a place that we can call our own. There are over 30 million of us running from one state to the other just like wild animals. We've got to have a home.

IN THE BEGINNING you have to take whatever you can find and make you a home. Then we must get a home because no one is going to give you theirs. So we must find a home that we can call our own. I can't wear a crown with no country. I have got to have some of this earth. A man with a crown that has no country is like a ship out there at sea—it is a ship but it has no rudder; therefore, it can't travel. We've got to have a home.

If God comes to bless us, He must bless us with the help of giving us some of this earth that we can call our own. If the Bible is true that the Lost-Found was given a home, we thank Allah to bless us, and speedily bless us—with a home.

We cannot anymore go around making mockery of no one because remember that once upon a time you were mocked—and you deserved it. You didn't have anything to get something. So, I say, brothers and sisters, since the arrival of Allah, I think that we should not sit still; we should arise and be like the Book says, arise and shine. No more living in the dark; you are living in the light. So let us arise and shine forth and go forth to do something for self.

IT ACTUALLY HURTS me to hear our people—and some of them are leaders—over there begging the white man to give them something. Give you nothing—you can give yourself something now. Whatever he has given to you and me that is freedom to go for self, you don't need anything else since you claim the earth and he's living on it and it belongs to you and you are not intelligent and smart enough to dig out of it right under your feet...so don't blame him for digging up that which you were not digging up.

These things are fair and plain. Look at self before ever you start charging others with your own fault. I don't say this to say the white people treated us as they should. No, they did not treat us as they should and if they had treated us as they should that would have been freedom, justice and equality and that, nature did not put in them. He gives you what nature gave him, so now don't blame him for that which by nature you put in him. Blame yourself for putting in him.

I WANT US TO REMEMBER that the Lord has established Himself among you and has given you a Flag, representing your freedom, and that you are justified to be free, now. If He has given to you a Flag and that you are justified in having that Flag to look up to the people of earth we can do something for self. We have the greatest Flag that has ever been raised by any man.

We must remember that the fault is not in the slave-master anymore; since he says you can go free and we say today he is not hindering us—it is we who are hindering ourselves. Give Justice to whom it is due. We glorify in making fun and charging the slave-master with keeping us a slave. He can't hold you a slave now. You are holding yourself a slave. I say to you, my beloved brothers and sisters, give justice to where it belongs and don't try to rob people out of justice. If the white man has freed you and me to go to work for self and you go all around the earth, he doesn't object. You go wherever you want to. He is not to blame today. You are the one to be blamed.

THIS IS A VERY SLY and spooky way that we have of dumping the burden on someone else. Right is right and we are of the Nation of righteous. Take our place among the righteous doing right. I love you, but I love you to do something for self and stop putting your fault on the slave-master.

If you say, "Well, he won't let me do so-and-so"—the earth is big. Go somewhere where you can do something for self without being hindered. Regardless to him trailing us to make it hard for us—the Indian and the buffalo trailed him. That didn't stop him from opening up a great country that you and I are sitting here in glorifying our freedom. The Indian was not doing anything with the country but hunting and fishing.

WHAT I AM TRYING to say to you, we cannot put all the fault on the white people. No, he doesn't deserve us charging him with all the fault because you are free. To make it clear to you, Allah came and gave to you a Flag representing freedom, justice and equality. We hoist the flag right here on this soil. He didn't say take it down. Nope—he did not hinder you from hoisting your own flag right beside his.

So we must get up and do something for self seeing that nobody is hindering us from doing for self. We must go and do for self and stop charging the old slave-master for being our hindering cause—be is not; it is ourselves.

Now, since you have known self and now you know your once slave-master and he is not trying to hinder you from being yourself I say be yourself. We all love to be equal with other people who are equal. Well then, do something to make them to accept us as their equal. We can’t sit up there on the curbstone and tell him to come and sit down with us—no!. We are a lazy people who like something for nothing; that is what we are—lazy.

WE CANNOT TAKE A country like this and build up cities from one end of it to the other like the white man has done. “Well we helped him.”. Well, that was your fault.

Certainly he was going to use you if you did not use yourself. He takes our woman, you say, and makes a dog out of her. You are not trying to make anything out of her yourself. Take her and make them to know and see that you are intelligent enough and love your woman enough to make something out of her. We are making an example—there they are.

HE IS A DESTROYER. You can't ask a destroyer to restore or fix up that which he has destroyed—he is destroyer. Take your own, restore her back in her place. Keep her in her place. Don't let him see her running Saturday night—nope. He didn't tell you to send your woman out there on the street. You did it yourself, and you should have kept her at home—at home where she belongs. And if you don't keep her in your home naturally she is acting like a wild beast out here and she is subjected to anybody.

Look at it now—take your woman off the streets out of the public eye and then the public will respect you. Nowhere do you go and find women with so much freedom as you find in America. They are free to ramble all night long and come home whenever they please, and you are out there looking for them, helping them; they cannot be respected with any such power. We've got to clean up our house and make our people win self respect then others will respect them and respect you

IF YOU WERE UP HERE where I am, you look very beautiful out there. So I say to you that you cannot put on a white dress or a black dress and expect people to respect the dress. I am about now, to discontinue our subject this afternoon. But I want you to remember—if you put on a white dress, clean, spotless and in that dress is unclean, you cannot be respected like that. We cannot go out and tell the public "I'm a Muslim," unless we practice the principles of such. We've got to respect and practice the principles of Islam.

I HAVE VISITED the Muslim world. I have made pilgrimages to Mecca and Medina—and I have seen and I have heard. These people don't believe in foolishness; so I am trying to clothe you not only with the garments of salvation but clothe you with the principles of our religion. These men are not here to look at you just trying to be Muslims—they are here wanting to know whether or not that you are a Muslim at heart. 